<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:btmaps="http://rdf.muninn-project.org/ontologies/btmaps#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="intsum.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>Daily Intelligence Summary</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1492/1, pp 50-51"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade Daily Intelligence Summary, 23 August 1917"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>11th Infantry Brigade - Daily Intelligence Summary</h1>
<p class="report_date">22/8/17 - 23/8/17</p>

<h2>OPERATIONS</h2>
<h3>Our own</h3>
<p>
Patrols were out in front of I.31/4 and I.31/3 during the night. No signs of the enemy were seen, but a shell hole was discovered about 40 yds. from our wire in front of I.31/3 which had obviously lately been occupied by the enemy.
</p>
<p>
</p>

<h2>ARTILLERY</h2>
<h3>Our own</h3>
<p>
Our Artillery carried out an organised shoot on DEVILS TRENCH between 4.0 p.m. and 5.0p.m. Trench Mortars fired on same objectives between 9.45 and 10 p.m.
</p>
<h3>Enemy</h3>
<p>
Activity below normal. At 3.45 p.m. and again at 4.15 p.m. a light barrage was put down in the neighbourhood of MUSKET and BAYONET TRENCH lasting about 5 minutes.
</p>
<p>
During the night some shells fell in the neighbourhood of I.31.c.20.05. At 5 a.m. about 20 77 m.m. shells fell near MONCHY and ORCHARD RESERVE.
</p>


<h2>TRENCH MORTARS</h2>
<h3>Our Own</h3>
<p>
A shoot was carried out against enemy M.G. emplacements at I.32.a.00.25. with good results. At 4.0 a.m. a shoot on DEVILS and ARROW TRENCHES in I.32.c. was carried out, in retaliation for light Trench Mortar fire on our working party.
</p>
<h3>Enemy</h3>
<p>
Medium T.M's were fired at Right Coy., Right Sub-Sector at 1.55 a.m. but no damage was done.
</p>
<p>
Enemy Trench Mortar in I.26.c. fired occasionally during the day, the shells falling between our front line and SCABBARD SUPPORT, and also occasionally during the night.
</p>

<h2>MACHINE GUNS</h2>
<h3>Our Own</h3>
<p>
Our M.G's at G. H. and No. 8 position fired 6,000 rounds indirect on to enemy tracks and Headquarters.
</p>
<h3>Enemy</h3>
<p>
Enemy M.G's were active during the night against wiring parties on the right of the Right Sub-Sector.
</p>


<h2>INTELLIGENCE</h2>
<p>
An enemy field battery was observed firing from behind a small wood on the left of JIGSAW WOOD. From the flashes it appears to be QUARRY WOOD.
</p>
<p>
New wire was observed from O.2.a.9.8. to O.2.b.05.70. The enemy seems to be working in his trench and saps between CIGAR COPSE and BOIS DES AUBEPINES.
</p>
<p>
An enemy sniper was observed firing from a tree in O.3.a.6.8. (approx).
</p>
<p>
A man wearing a soft cap with a white band round it was seen by CIGAR COPSE.
</p>
<p>
A good deal of enemy movement was seen at I.21.b.15.75; this spot will be kept under observation with a view to informing the Artillery.
</p>
<p>
From CHAIN SUPPORT a M.G. position was located in a house in PELVES. This house is at the foot of a big red brick factory chimney, which has been broken off half way down by shell fire.
</p>
<p>
When our T.M's were firing this morning a green light was sent up from DEVIL. This was followed by another Green light bursting into two. No action followed.
</p>
<p>
During the bombardment of DEVILS Trench between 4 and 5 p.m. Several of the enemy in front of I.31/4 appear to have been wounded, as shouts and groans were heard coming from the enemy trench.
</p>
<p>
At 5.15 a.m. scattered parties of the enemy were seen in the neighbourhood of JIGSAW WOOD, KEELING COPSE and the SAND PIT,; apparently working parties returning after a nights toil. Lewis Gun fire was opened up on to the nearer parties.
</p>
<p>
At 4.0 a.m. enemy put up 4 Green lights about O.2/8 apparently for "lengthen range" as some of his shells were falling on his own trench.
</p>
<p>
At 6.30 p.m. yesterday 22nd inst., a pigeon was seen flying in an Easterly direction over our lines towards PELVES. The pigeon was watched and lost sight of when it got past PELVES.
</p>

<br/>
<p class="signed"><datetime content="1917-08-23">23/8/17</datetime>. (Signed) For B.G.C., 11th Infantry Brigade.</p>

</body>
</html>