<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:btmaps="http://rdf.muninn-project.org/ontologies/btmaps#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="intsum.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>Daily Intelligence Summary</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1492/1, p 58"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade Daily Intelligence Summary, 28 August 1917"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>11th Infantry Brigade - Daily Intelligence Summary</h1>
<p class="report_date">27/8/17 - 28/8/17</p>

<h2>OPERATIONS</h2>
<h3>Our own</h3>
<p>
Our standing patrol N. of T. Sap report nothing seen or heard. An Officers patrol left W Sap at 12 m/n and adavanced in a S.E. direction for about 30 yds. from our wire. They then lay down and listened. The weather and wind were very unfavourable for hearing anything so the patrol pushed on for another 20 yds. They remained out until 12.50 a.m. but nothing was heard or seen.
</p>
<p>
Another Officer patrol left Y Sap at 1 a.m. for the purpose of examining the enemy's work near the tall telegraph pole as ordered. The patrol crawled out towards the supspected Post but no sound of working was heard. Two of the enemy were seen by the telegraph post that is leaning over. Sounds of whistling were heard from this direction but owing to the very bad weather and intense darkness, no enemy's work could be observed. The patrol returnd at 1.45 a.m.
</p>

<h2>ARTILLERY</h2>
<h3>Our own</h3>
<p>
Hrassing fire until midnight; very quiet afterwards.
</p>
<h3>Enemy</h3>
<p>
Two salvoes of 5.9 were fired between RIFLE SUPPORT and MUSKET TRENCH at 5.0 a.m. and at junction of LONE LANE and RIFLE at 5.20 a.m.
</p>
<p>
Enemy shelled with H.E. at 3.30 to 3.50 p.m. or our right front, ORCHARD TRENCH was shelled between 4.30 and 4.50 a.m.
</p>
<p>
There was a marked inactivity on the part of the enemy's Artillery.
</p>
<p>
At noon 15 shells fell on TWIN TRENCH, MONCHY and also RIFLE TRENCH were shelled at intervals during the day.
</p>

<h2>TRENCH MORTARS</h2>
<h3>Our Own</h3>
<p>
At 12.15 p.m. a shoot was carried out on road at I.31.b.75.70 where enemy was suspected to be wworking. It is thought that excellent results were obtained as wood was thrown into the air.
</p>
<p>
During the night shoots were carried out on CIGAR COPSE.
</p>
<p>
Shoots were carried out on M.G. position at I.32.a.15.05. and I.32.c.65.30.
</p>
<h3>Enemy</h3>
<p>
Enemy fired on TWIN COPSES.
</p>
<p>
7 rounds were fired at our No. 2 Lewis Gun post (O.2.a.95.65.) which had just been firing. Direct hits were made on parapet and traverse causing collapse of both. Gun and personnel were undamaged.
</p>

<h2>MACHINE GUNS</h2>
<h3>Our Own</h3>
<p>
Out M.Gs. from H. Post and P.9 position fired intermittently throughout the night at enemy tracks and roads.
</p>
<h3>Enemy</h3>
<p>
Enemy M.Gs. swept H Post at intervals during the night and were also very actively sweeping the Left Sub-Sector.
</p>


<h2>INTELLIGENCE</h2>
<p>
Between 3 and 4 p.m. four of the enemy were observed proceeding from one dugout to another with what seemed to be cooking utensils at I.23.a.8.6. to I.28.a.8.7.
</p>
<p>
At 8.55 p.m. 2 Germans were seen to leave DEVILS TRENCH at BIT LANE. They were fired on.
</p>
<p>
About 5 men were observed at work draining in DEVILS TRENCH about I.31.b.90.70. Trench boards were seen being carried near this point.
</p>
<p>
At 9.30 a.m. and again at 12.30 p.m. a party of about 20 men were seen to emerge from DELBAR WOOD.
</p>
<p>
Small parties of the enemy were continually seen moving about in the open in twos and threes about I.28.d.2.7. They appeared from behind the ridge and disappeared near PARK WORK early this morning.
</p>
<p>
</p>

<p class="signed"><datetime content="1917-08-28">28/8/17</datetime>. (Signed) For B.G.C., 11th Infantry Brigade.</p>

</body>
</html>