<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:btmaps="http://rdf.muninn-project.org/ontologies/btmaps#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="intsum.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>Daily Intelligence Summary</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1492/1, pp 40-41"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade Daily Intelligence Summary, 18 August 1917"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>11th Infantry Brigade - Daily Intelligence Summary</h1>
<p class="report_date">17/8/17 - 18/8/17</p>

<h2>OPERATIONS</h2>
<h3>Our own</h3>
<p>
A standing patrol was out again last night in front of I.31/2. The only thing heard was a working party about I.32.a.0.3.
</p>
<p>
A patrol went from W Sap at 1 a.m. and lay out in a shell hole about I.31.b.8.3. until 2.30 a.m. With the exception of the above working party nothing was noticed.
</p>
<p>
A patrol left E Sap at 11 p.m. and proceeded S. along enemy wire and came in at 7 Sap. Enemy was reported to be in very good condition. Nothing seen or heard of enemy.
</p>
<p>
At 1.0 a.m. patrol left B Sap and examined enemy line I.25.d.4.8. to I.25.d.20.85. Progress was made along W. bank of Ravine until a notice board, possibly artillery mark, painted slate colour was reached. near by were found some consolidated shell holes linked up with earth to form a parados. Position thickly wired. "Very" lights were fired from I.25.d.3.8. Sounds of working in the ravine were heard. Party returned at 2.45 a.m. to FINGER at I.25.d.0.9.
</p>


<h2>ARTILLERY</h2>
<p>
Our own and the Enemy's was normal throughout the 24 hours.
</p>

<h2>MACHINE GUNS</h2>
<h3>Our Own</h3>
<p>
Machine guns on our left report. During the daytime the two guns in NOEUX WOOD kept very close watch on enemy's position south of river. At about 10 a.m. a man was seen in post approximately I.25.b.3.0. and was immediately fired on and was seen to drop.
</p>

<h3>Enemy</h3>
<p>
The Enemy Machine Gun in the Sap at I.31.d.92.88. was again active and swept our parapets during the night. The gun appears to be of the light class. Enemy Machine Gun traversed H and G post.- long range fire.
</p>
<p>
Between 9.0 p.m. and 12.0 p.m. WELFORD S. of JOHNSON was swept with fire at intervals.
</p>

<h2>TRENCH MORTARS</h2>
<h3>Our Own</h3>
<p>
The following trenches and positions were fired on by our Stokes Mortars during the night.
</p>
<p>
1. ARCHIE TR. in I.25.d. at 11.30 p.m. and 12.30 p.m. also again at 4 a.m.
</p>
<p>
2. Suspected M.G. positions at I.25.0.35.75. Whilst firing on this target enemy put up green lights but as far as we could ascertain nothing happened in consequence.
</p>
<p>
3. during the night salvoes were fired on DEVILS TRENCH from I.31.b.90.70. to <span content="I.32.c.25.40">I.32.c.2.5.40</span>. Sentries report that during these operations at enemy stand-to, a Machine Gun which was in section in front of Y Sap was put out of action by us.
</p>
<p>
4. An enemy T.M. (light) opened fire from I.32.c.25.35. Immediate retaliation was given on this mortar. No firing came from this position during the remainder.
</p>
<p>
5. Bursts of fire were put on enemy front line in I.32.c. at 1.a.m. Enemy put up several red lights.
</p>


<h3>Enemy</h3>
<p>
In reply to our T.M. fire at 4.15 a.m. a double green light was fired and the enemy minewerfer opend fire on SCABBARD between 1.45 and 3.45 a.m.
</p>
<p>
Minnies 2 and 5 intermittently shelled SCABBARD, WRIST and ELBOW.
</p>


<h2>INTELLIGENCE</h2>
<p>
Two Bosches were observed laying wires about I.32.a.8.6. at 11.30 a.m. The stationary Kite Balloon over JIGSAW WOOD was again observed signalling at 9 p.m. last night.
</p>
<p>
6 observation balloons were up most of the day between VITRY Church and BOIS DU SART. One was observed signalling as follows:-
</p>
<table>
<tr><td>A</td><td>ATIHYOTE.</td></tr>
<tr><td>B</td><td>BITTAT III</td></tr>
<tr><td>C</td><td>EST</td></tr>
<tr><td>D</td><td>II TTT U II</td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="2">E.C. ZI/EI FFL 74II</td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="2">F A TT T O/X</td></tr>
</table>
<p>
What appears to have been a snipers loophole is suspected about 150 yds from N.E. corner of RAVINE in ANGEL.
</p>
<p>
At 9.10 a.m. a German was observed walking along ANGEL towards DEVILS returning 9.30 a.m. He waqs fired on by snipers and disappeared at N.E. corner of Ravine.
</p>
<p>
Enemy heavy and light Machine Guns were spotted at I.25.d.8.0.
</p>

<p class="signed"><datetime content="1917-08-18">18/8/17</datetime>. (Signed) For Brigade Major, 11th Infantry Brigade.</p>

</body>
</html>