<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:btmaps="http://rdf.muninn-project.org/ontologies/btmaps#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="report.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>Account of Operations</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1491/3, pp 126-129"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11 Bde Account of Operations; 9-16 April 1917"/>
</head>
<body>
<article>
<p class="underline-dashed">4th Division "G".</p>
<h1>Account of operations carried out by the 11th Brigade. April 9th - 16th inclusive.</h1>

<div>
<h3><datetime content="1917-04-09">APRIL 9TH</datetime></h3>
<p>
The march of the Brigade to the assembly areas was carried out without incident.
</p>
<p>
At 10 a.m. under orders received from the 4th Division the Brigade moved in column of route to the Old British Fron Line. The forward route was clear of Artillery which had advanced previously and the fire of only one gun had to be stopped.
</p>
<p>
After passing the Old British Front Line the Brigade advanced in two columns to the Blue Line, Units moving in column of route. Only very minor casualties were suffered and the Blue Line was reached &frac12; hour before the schedule time. At schedule time the Brigade moved in Artillery formation to assembly positions behind the Brown Line or 3rd German System. This advance (as that from the Old Front Line to the Blue Line) was made on a compass bearing and units reached their positions without difficulty. This phase was marked by a practically complete absence of Artillery fire by the Enemy and Battalions effected any slight adjustment in their frontages that were necessary without any interference on the part of the enemy.
</p>
<p>
At 3.10 p.m. the leading Battalions of the Brigade, 1st Somerset Light Infantry and 1st Hampshire Regiment passed through the 9th Division and advanced in Artillery formation until they came into view of the enemy in the 4th German System, when they deployed. The wire in front of this systement was found to be untouched by our Artillery fire and the only means of passing through it were the gaps which had been left in it by the enemy. The enemy offered on the whole, very little resistance, though some rifle and machine gun fire is reported. All the Germans with few exception in the Front Line surrendered, those in the Support Line fled Eastwards, many being shot down.
</p>
<p>
Meanwhile the 1st East Lancashire Regiment formed a defensive flank facing North from the POINT DU JOUR to the left of the Hampshire Regiment. Some bombing was necessary in the trenches in the vicinity of the POINT DU JOUR before the line could be established here, while the gunners in the German gun positions on the N.E. slope of the Spur appear to have offered a far more determined resistance.
</p>
<p>
In the advance of the two assaulting Battalions, direction had been lost with the result that the Brigade edged too much to the South and owing to the similarity of the ground and the roads passing through the German 4th System, the mistake was not realised till later, when it was rectified without nay difficulty.
</p>
<p>
The 1st Rifle Brigade crossed the Brown Line 25 minutes after the two assaulting Battalions. On reaching the wire in front of the 4th German System, the gaps of which were under hostile Artillery fire, some casualties were suffered. The SUNKEN ROAD appears to have been then as later the line of this hostile barrage and more casualties were sustained on this line.
</p>
<p>
The wire in front of HYDERABAD REDOUBT was uncut, but the German resistance was weak and the Redoubt was captured. The 1st Rifle Brigade immediately pushed forward patrols but encountered heavy Machine Gun and rifle fire and after an attempt to dig in posts, East of the Redoubt and further casualties had been sustained, it was determined to concentrate efforts on consolidating the Redoubt.
</p>
<p>
It is not quite certain what the troops of the enemy were who offered resistance at ths point and who dug in on a line 600 or 700 yds. East of the Redoubt. If they were the troops, who had retired from the 4th German System, they had recovered very quickly from their disorganisation. It is more probable that the retreating troops were rallied by fresh enemy troops who arrived on the scene about this time. These reserves, as also the enemy troops in their retreat from the 4th German System were subjected to a very heavy rifle and Machine Gun fire by our troops and it is certain that very severe casualties were inflicted on them. The Rifle Brigade expended so much ammunition on this that they had to cease fire to keep a reserve of ammunition. The Machine Gun Company report that they inflicted severe casualties on a Battalion of Infantry advancing in extended order on the GAVRELLE - ROEUX Road.
</p>
<p>
Before it was dark the enemy troops in this vicinity attempted a counter-attack on the Redoubt. This counter-attack was completely stopped by our Machine Gun fire and rifle fire from the 1st Rifle Brigade and 1st Hampshire Regiment, and many enemy dead were seen lying on the ground East of the Redoubt.
</p>
<p>
From this time onwards the situation became quieter as consolidation continued.
</p>
<p>
During the day the estimated number of prisoners taken was 350 Officers and other ranks of whom one was a General whose Head Quarters were in the SUNKEN ROAD. The number of guns captured including those subsequently discovered, was 26 of all calibres, of which 4 were 8&quot; howitzers. In addition 8 Machine Guns and 1 Cooker, besides a large amount of warlike material of all descriptions.
</p>
</div>

<div>
<h3><datetime content="1917-04-10">APRIL 10TH</datetime></h3>
<p>
On the afternoon of the 10th instant, under orders received from the 4th Division, the 1st Somerset Light Infantry and 1st Hampshire Regiment sent out strong patrols to attempt to reach the line of the GAVRELLE - ROEUX Road. They were met with a very heavy Machine Gun and rifle fire though the Artillery fire was not so heavy. The two patrols of the 1st Somerset Light Infantry were unable to advance more than 100 or 200 yards and in a few minutes were practically all casualties; the platoons which were to have advanced in support and make good the GAVRELLE - ROEUX Road did not in consequence advance.
</p>
<p>
In the evening of the 10th instant, the enemy counter-attacked the 1st Hampshire Regiment who were occupying the 4th German system but did not press the attack home in the face of our Artillery and Machine Gun barrage. This was probably a reconnaissance in force. The 1st Hampshire Regiment sustained considerable casualties from enemy Artillery fire.
</p>
</div>

<div>
<h3><datetime content="1917-04-11">APRIL 11TH</datetime></h3>

<p>
The Brigade was ordered to form a defensive flank facing North to support an attack by the 10th and 12th Brigade, whose objective was GREENLAND HILL and PLOUVAIN.
</p>
<p>
The attack started at 12 noon and for some time it seemed as if the right of the 10th Brigade might reach the GAVRELLE - ROEUX Road. The attack however was held up by Machine Gun fire. The 1st Somerset Light Infantry who were detailed to form the defensive flank were unable to advance far and suffered heavy casualties from Machine Guns reported to be North and N.W. of the INN. During the attack Cavalry patrols attempted to emerge from FAMPOUX; of those that were seen all became casualties within two or three minutes.
</p>
<p>
At 5.0 p.m. the 1st Hampshire Regiment was ordered to bomb up the 4th German System as far as HONEY TRENCH. This operation was successful, though attended with considerable losses for so small an operation.
</p>
<p>
In the evening of the 11th and night 11th/12th the 1st East Lancashire Regimkent advanced their posts about 400 yards, thus pushing in front of several guns that had been abandoned by the enemy.
</p>
</div>

<div>
<h3><datetime content="1917-04-12">APRIL 12TH</datetime></h3>

<p>
The attack which had failed on the previous day was repeated by the 9th Division attacking, while the 1st Rifle Brigade supported the left flank of the attack. In order to assist this operation the 1st Hampshire Regiment were ordered to bomb up to the 4th German System as far as <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.H.6.a.4.1.">H.6.a.4.1.</span> if possible. This minor operation started at 1.30 p.m, was unsuccessful mainly owing to rifle and Machine Gun fire. The main attack, which was supported by a heavier Artillery barrage than that of the 11th inst., started at 5.30 p.m. but was unsuccessful. The failure of the attack was again largely due to the enemy Machine Gun fire partly assisted by the fact that the 9th Division advanced in open order from the 4th German System (some 1000 yards behind our Front Line) and suffered very heavy casualties before Zero hour, besides giving the enemy warning of the attack.
</p>
<p>
The Rifle Brigade were caught by flank and frontal Machine Gun fire and did not advance more that 100 - 200 yards. In this short distance they suffered severe casualties - 2 Officers and 51 O.Rs.
</p>
</div>

<div>
<h3><datetime content="1917-04-13">APRIL 13TH</datetime></h3>

<p>
No operation was carried out. During the night the enemy sent over a large number of gas shells - mainly on the Battery position of the 32nd Brigade, but a considerable number fell in EFFIE TRENCH in which the Support Company of the 1st East Lancashire Regiment was accommodated. 5 Gas casualties were sustained but none were serious.
</p>

<h3><datetime content="1917-04-14">APRIL 14TH</datetime></h3>

<p>
On the night of the 14th/15th the 1st East Lancashire Regiment advanced their posts to a line approximately <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.B.29.d.1.1">B.29.d.1.1.</span> - <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.H.5.b.3.7">H.5.b.3.7.</span> - HONEY TRENCH. They were also instructed to reconnoitre and occupy the dugouts in <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.H.5.d.8.6.">H.5.d.8.6</span> A report was received that these had been reconnoitred and found abandoned but this was later found to be untrue.
</p>
</div>

<div>
<h3><datetime content="1917-04-15">APRIL 15TH</datetime></h3>

<p>
At 6.30 p.m. after a 3&frac12; hours bombardment by Heavy Artillery the 1st Hampshire Regiment attempted to work up the 4th German system as far as <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.H.6.a.4.1">H.6.a.4.1.</span>, under cover of a creeping barrage of 4.5 howitzers, advancing at a rate of 100 yards in 6 minutes. The attempt was unsuccessful, the men being unable to advance owing to rifle and Machine Gun fire from both flanks.
</p>
<p>
Judging after the event, it seems probable that the Heavy Artillery bombardment had been too long and that the trenches were so damaged that our men in advancing had to expose themselves to enemy Machine Gun and rifle fire, while moving over the damaged portions of the trench.
</p>
</div>

<div>
<h3><datetime content="1917-04-16">APRIL 16TH</datetime></h3>

<p>
The Brigade was relieved in the line night of the 16th/17th and moved to the Railway cutting and Black Line.
</p>

<p>
Judging by the operations as a whole the following deductions may be drawn :-
</p>
<p>
1.&nbsp; It might have been possible, by the immediate use of Cavalry to exploit the success of the 9th instant.
</p>
<p>
2.&nbsp; Once the enemy had recovered from the effect of our rapid advance by the assistance of fresh troops hurried to the spot, the chance of converting the operations into "Open Warfare" had gone. The chance had gone, probably, as early as dusk on the evening of the 9th instant and this was proved by the failure of the patrols of the 1st Somerset Light Infantry and even more certainly by the failure of the attack of the 10th and 12th Brigades on the 11th instant. It would seem that once the enemy has recovered from the demoralisation of a rapid retreat and has time to get his Machine Guns into action, the only course to be adopted is to renew the Artillery preparation. This takes time, as his Machine Guns and Strong Points must be located by careful reconnaissance and knocked out.
</p>
<p>
3.&nbsp; It is for all practical purposes impossible to cut wire with 60 pdrs. without direct observation. The wire in front of the 3rd German System, in the condition in which it was, when our attacking troops reached it, would have held up the attack had there been any but demoralised troops behind it. The wire in front of the 4th German System and HYDERABAD REDOUBT was untouched.
</p>
<p>
4.&nbsp; In the three operations since the 9th, carried out by this Brigade, it has been the Machine Guns that have held up our men. The enemy's Artillery barrage could not have done this. Our Artillery should therefore be almost entirely concentrated on knocking out the enemy's Machine Guns.
</p>
</div>

<p class="signed"><datetime content="1917-04-17">17th April, 1917</datetime>.</p>
</article>
</body>
</html>