<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:btmaps="http://rdf.muninn-project.org/ontologies/btmaps#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="report.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>Account of Operations</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1491/3, pp 138-139"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11 Bde Account of Operations; 11 April 1917"/>
</head>
<body>

<article>

<p class="underline-solid">S E C R E T</p>
<p class="reference underline-dashed">11th Inf. Bde. No. BM 4/194.</p>
<p class="underline-dashed">4th Division "G".</p>


<p>
Reference your G.671 of the 20th instant. The following is an account of the operations of the 11th April, 1917 :-
</p>
<p>
1.&nbsp; Early on the morning of the 11th inst., orders were received that the 4th Division was to advance and take up a line PLOUVAIN - GREENLAND HILL - INN <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.I.7.a.2.8">I.7.a.2.8.</span> - HYDERABAD REDOUBT. The order of the Brigades from North to South was 11th, 10th and 12th.
</p>
<p class="indent">
The objectives were as follows :-
</p>
<p class="indent">
<span class="underline-solid">1st OBJECTIVE.</span> ROUX - GAVRELLE Road as far North as the INN at <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.I.7.a.2.8">I.7.a.2.8.</span>, with a defensive flank from the INN to HYDERABAD REDOUBT.
</p>
<p class="indent">
<span class="underline-solid">2nd OBJECTIVE.</span> PLOUVAIN - GREENLAND HILL, with a defensive flank from <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.I.7.b.2.8">I.7.b.2.8.</span> to the INN. 
</p>
<p>
2.&nbsp; The role of the 11th Brigade was to support the left flank of the 4th Division, forming a defensive flank in the first objective from the INN at <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.I.7.a.2.8">I.7.a.2.8</span> to HYDERABAD REDOUBT, and in the second objective from <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.I.7.b.2.8">I.7.b.2.8</span> to the INN.
</p>
<p>
The boundary between the 11th and 10th Brigades was a line HYDERABAD REDOUBT (inclusive to the 11th Brigade) to Cross Roads <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.I.7.a.4.3">I.7.a.4.3.</span> - <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.I.7.b.2.8">I.7.b.2.8.</span>
 </p>
<p>
3.&nbsp; The 1st Somerset Light Infantry were detailed to support the attack of the 10th and 12th Brigades and to form the defensive flank from HYDERABAD REDOUBT to the INN at <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.I.7.a.2.8">I.7.a.2.8.</span> later to <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.I.7.b.2.8">I.7.b.2.8.</span> Their attack was to be covered by machine gun fire from the 11th Machine Gun Coy., which was mainly directed against the ground in H.6.d. and I.1.c., where machine guns had been located on the previous day.
</p>
<p>
Their attack was also to be supported by Lewis Gun and rifle fire by the 1st Hampshire Regiment from HAZARD TRENCH.
</p>
<p>
Zero Hour was fixed at 12 noon.
</p>

<p>
4.&nbsp; For the operation, 11th Brigade Battle Head Quarters were established in the dugouts in the SUNKEN ROAD at <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.H.11.c.8.3">H.11.c.8.3.</span>, while the Head quarters of the 1st Somerset Light Infantry were established in HYDERABAD REDOUBT. From both places good observation of the operations was obtained.
</p>
<p>
5.&nbsp; The attack started at 12 noon. Our Artillery barrage appeared to be fairly thick but was not so dense as that on the 12th instant.
</p>
<p>
The enemy at once opened a heavy machine gun fire and after the lapse of a few minutes put down an Artillery barrage. (1) on or about our Front Line through HYDERABAD REDOUBT. (2) on the SUNKEN ROAD in H11.c.
</p>
<p>
From the SUNKEN ROAD, the movements of the 10th and 11th Brigades could be seen and they advanced for about 200 or 300 yards suffering heavy casualties. On the South in H.18.a. and b., they may have advanced some 500 to 600 yards but the smoke made accurate observation difficult. Beyond this point troops appeared unable to get forward and the leading lines were mown down. (Afterwards, when the smoke cleared, the dead of the 2nd Seaforths could be observed lying in rows in front of the German line). In particular a strong point about <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.H.12.d.9.9">H.12.d.9.9.</span> was strongly held by Germans and many of our dead could be seen lying 200 - 300 yards to the West of it.
</p>
<p>
The 1st Somerset Light Infantry attacked on a one-Company front and they report that they had difficulty in moving out of HYDERABAD REDOUBT owing to the depth of the trenches and the fact that they were crowded out by the 10th Brigade. They do not appear to have got beyond a N. &amp; S. line through <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.H.12.c.7.8">H.12.c.7.8.</span> They could not advance beyond this line owing to the heavy machine gun fire. Some of them got in the communication trench which runs Eastward from HYDERABAD REDOUBT and attempted to bomb towards the enemy but were stopped by machine gun fire as the trench was shallow.
</p>
<p>
They dug in on this line making a block in the communications trench running East from the REDOUBT about <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.H.12.c.7.8">H.12.c.7.8.</span> and also dug in posts East of the HYDERABAD REDOUBT to about <span typeof="btmaps:GridReference" property="skos:notation" content="51b.H.12.a.0.4">H.12.a.0.4.</span>
</p>
<p>
The casualties suffered by the 1st Somerset Light Infantry on this day were, Officers 3, Other Ranks 20.
</p>
<p>
6.&nbsp; There was no question of them coming back from any objective as they never got beyond a line 200 - 300 yards West of the German trench.
</p>

<p>
<span class="underline-solid">As far as could be observed</span>, the 10th Brigade did not reach the German trench which ran parallel to and about 300 yards West of the GAVRELLE - ROUEX Road.
</p>

<p class="signed"><datetime content="1917-04-21">21/4/17</datetime>. (Signed) Brigadier General. Commanding 11th Infantry Brigade.</p>

</article>

</body>
</html>