<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:btmaps="http://rdf.muninn-project.org/ontologies/btmaps#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="intsum.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>Daily Intelligence Summary</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1492/1, p 37"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade Supplemetary Intelligence Summary, 17 August 1917"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Supplementary Intelligence Summary</h1>

<p>Report from O.C. 1st Som. LI. begins</p>

<p>
HIMALAYA was shelled this morning from 8.15 to 10.15 a.m. with from 120 to 150 4.2 shells and a few 5.9's. The line of the road received most attention, but nearly all the trenches were shelled, and considerable damage was done. I had 6 casualties.
</p>
<p>
If I had not put one Coy. in the Cave, I should have suffered more heavily as the trench vacated by them was badly knocked about.
</p>
<p>
At present I have nearly the whole Battn. in the Cave.
</p>
<p>
I do not consider this position to be particularly safe now and casualties are likely to be regular.
</p>
<p>
The only protection is the Cave.
</p>
<p>
It is impossible to avoid all movement as there is no through trench communication. All orderlies etc. have to come over the top.
</p>
<p>
The whole position is under observation by balloons and the greater part under direct observation.
</p>
<p>
All day working parties found by the Battn. here and the men attached to the tunnellers have to move in view of the enemy. Also there is too much movement along the road of lorries, wagons, etc.
</p>

<p class="signed"><datetime content="1917-08-17">17/8/17</datetime>. (Signed) For B.G.C., 11th Infantry Brigade.</p>

</body>
</html>