<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
		<link type="text/css" href="diary.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
		<title>August 1914</title>
		<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
		<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1486/1, pp 34-37"/>
		<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade War Diary, August 1914"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>War Diary – 11 Inf Bde</h1>
		<p>August 1914</p>
		<table>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Hour, Date, Place</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Summary of Events and Information</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Remarks</p>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>18<sup>th</sup> Aug. '14</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Brigade moved from <span class="place">COLCHESTER</span> to <span class="place">HARROW ON THE HILL</span>, where the 4<sup>th</sup> Div. concentrated by 19<sup>th</sup> Aug.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>21st</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Brigade entrain at <span class="place">HARROW</span> &amp; proceed to <span class="place">SOUTHAMPTON</span>. Hd Qrs, 1/Som. L.I. 1/E. Lancs, &frac12; Batt'n 1/Hants embark on BRAEMAR CASTLE &amp; sail to <span class="place">HAVRE</span>. Disembarkation completed by 9 a.m. 23rd.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>23rd</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Hd Qrs entrain at 10 p.m. for <span class="place">Rest Camp at <span class="place">HAVRE</span></span>. Rest of Brigade entrained during night and early hours of Aug 24th.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>24th</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Brigade commenced to detrain at <span class="place">LE CATEAU</span> about 4 pm. Finished about 4 am 25.9.14. Brigade H.Q.<sup>rs</sup> at <span class="place">BRIASTRE</span>. Somerset L.I. and E. LANCS billeted at <span class="place">BRIASTRE</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>25th 4 am</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Somerset L.I. and E LANCS advanced to positions respectively S.W. and S.E. of <span class="place">SOLESMES</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>25th 11 am</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>At ll am the Hants &amp; Rifle Brigade arrived at <span class="place">BELLE VUE</span>. The Hants were sent to strengthen the E. Lancs SE of <span class="place">SOLESMES</span> and the Rifle Brigade were sent to the S.W. of <span class="place">SOLESMES</span>, &frac12; Bn to prolong the line of the S.L.I. to the E., &frac12; Bn in reserve. Thus covering the retirement of the 7th Brigade which formed the rearguard of the 3rd Division moving S.W through <span class="place">ROMERIES</span> on <span class="place">SOLESMES</span>, and the 19th Brigade retiring through <span class="place">SOLESMES</span> from the N.N.W.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p><a href="1914-08-Appendix1.xhtml">Appendix 1</a></p>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>25th 11 pm</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>At 11 pm the Brigade retired to <span class="place">VIESLY</span>, greatly impeded by transport which was hopelessly blocked in <span class="place">the village of <span class="place">VIESLY</span></span>, forming a rearguard with the 10th Brigade to the N. After passing <span class="place">VIESLY</span> the 10th Brigade took over rearguard to the 4th Division. The Brigade retired via <span class="place">BETHENCOURT</span> - <span class="place">BEAUVOIS</span> - <span class="place">FONTAINE-AU-PIRE</span> where it arrived at 2.45 am on August 26th &amp; billeted.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>August 26th 1914. <br/><span class="place">FONTAINE-AU-PIRE</span>. <br/><span class="place">LIGNY</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Battle of <span class="place">LIGNY</span></p>
				<p>After the retirement from <span class="place">LIGNY</span>, the Brigade was split into two portions, the Brigade H.Qrs and a portion of each battalion of the Brigade retired via <span class="place">CAULLERY</span> - <span class="place">ELINCOURT</span> to <span class="place">SERAIN</span> arriving about 8 pm and billeting there. The rest of the Brigade retired through <span class="place">SELVIGNY</span> - <span class="place">MALINCOURT</span> to <span class="place">VILLERS-OUTRÉAUX</span> where they billeted.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p><a href="1914-08-Appendix2.xhtml">Appendix 2</a></p>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>August 27th 1914</p>
					<p><span class="place">SERAIN</span> 2.30 am</p>
					<p><span class="place">NAUROY</span> 8.30 am</p>
					<p><span class="place">NAUROY</span> 8.30 pm</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Hq Qrs Wing of Brigade retired at 2.30 am cross country under local guidance skirting the N of <span class="place">BEAUREVOIR</span> in order to escape the congested roads - just N of <span class="place">ESTREES</span> to <span class="place">NAUROY</span>, where the G.O.C. decided to make a 3 hours halt, till 11.30 am, but at 10.45 am it was reported that the Uhlans had been seen in the next village and shell fire was almost immediately observed on the village. The troops retired somewhat disorganised. H Qrs, the E. Lancs and fragments of other battalions to the S.W. across the canal under cover of a long strip of wood to <span class="place">PONTRU</span> - <span class="place">VERMAND</span> - <span class="place">ATTILLY</span> - <span class="place">ETREILLERS</span> - <span class="place">FLUGIÈRES</span> - <span class="place">AUBIGNY</span> to <span class="place">HAM</span> where they arrived about 8.30 pm and took up outposts about <span class="place">ST. SULPICE</span> after a march of about 35 miles.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>Aug 27th (cont'd) &nbsp;&nbsp;<span class="place">NAUROY</span></p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The other portion of this Wing chiefly the Rifle Brigade, E Lancs and Hants retired W through <span class="place">VILLERET</span> turning S and eventually joining the 4th Division during their night march to <span class="place">VOYENNE</span>: at <span class="place">TERTRY</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p><span class="place">VILLERS-OUTRÉAUX</span> 3.30 am</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The other Wing of the Brigade left <span class="place">VILLERS-OUTRÉAUX</span> at 3.30 am and marched to <span class="place">LE CATELET</span> where Hd Qrs 4th Division were found. The march was immediately resumed to <span class="place">ROISEL</span> where the Division rested till the evening. Colonel Biddulph with a portion of the Rifle Brigade was at <span class="place">LE CATELET</span> and he assumed command of this portion of the Brigade. From <span class="place">ROISEL</span> a night march was made by the Division to <span class="place">VOYENNE</span> via <span class="place">VRAIGNES</span> - <span class="place">MONCHY</span>, arriving about 5 am 28th Aug.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>Aug 28th <span class="place">VOYENNE</span> 8am</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The B.G.C. rode over from <span class="place">HAM</span> and assumed command about 8 am, leaving the other wing under the command of Col LE Marchant. The retirement was resumed about 10 am via <span class="place">LIBREMONT</span> where a halt of 2 hours was made, the march being resumed at 8 pm to <span class="place">FRENCICHES</span> where the troops bivouaced along the road till dawn. The wing of Brigade under Lt. Col Le Marchant marched to <span class="place">PONT L'ÉVÈQUE</span> via main road through <span class="place">GUISCARD</span>, and bivouaced there.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>Aug 29th <span class="place">FRENICHES</span> 3.45 am</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Retirement resumed via <span class="place">MUIRANCOURT</span>, where the 12th Brig was passed, to <span class="place">SERMAIZE</span> where this Wing of the Brigade halted till 6 pm, at this hour the march was resumed to the <span class="place">PONT L'ÉVÉQUE</span> via <span class="place">the western suburbs of <span class="place">NOYON</span></span> wherein orders were received to continue the march to the village of <span class="place">LES CLOYÉS</span> which was reached about 11 pm.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>Aug 29th (cont'd) <span class="place">PONT L'ÉVÈQUE</span></p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The Wing under Col LE Marchant moved from <span class="place">PONT L'ÉVÈQUE</span> at 4 pm through a large wood along an indifferent track which caused some delay to the transport, to <span class="place">LES CLOYES</span> where the whole Division was bivouaced, and here the two wings of the Brigade at length became united.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p><a href="1914-08-Appendix3.xhtml">Appendix 3</a></p>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>Aug 30th <span class="place">LES CLOYES</span></p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Soon after daybreak on Aug 30th this Brigade moved as part of the division via <span class="place">CARLEPONT</span> - <span class="place">BAILLY</span> - <span class="place">TRACY-LE-MONT</span> - <span class="place">TROSLY-BREUIL</span> to <span class="place">PIERREFONDS</span>, this was a particularly trying march. <span class="place">PIERREFONDS</span> was not reached till after dark, bivouacs were difficult of access, and billetting was impossible owing to a reported outbreak of smallpox: consequently the troops spent a wretched night in the streets.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p><a href="1914-08-Appendix4.xhtml">Appendix 4</a></p>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p>Aug 31st <span class="place">PIERREFONDS</span> 6 am</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>On this day the march turned westward through <span class="place">the forest of COMPIÈGNE</span> via <span class="place">ST. JEAN-AU-BOIS</span> to <span class="place">ST. SAUVEUR</span>. The Brigade was to have billeted in <span class="place">SAINTIMES</span> and arrangements had been made - but development in the situation caused a change of plans and the Rifle Brigade were ordered to <span class="place">COURCELLES</span> and SOMERSET L.I. to <span class="place">the high ground S of <span class="place">ST SAUVEUR</span></span>. The HANTS and the E. Lancs found the outpost line to the E of the village. The 1st line transport was ordered to <span class="place">VERBERIE</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p><a href="1914-08-Appendix5.xhtml">Appendix 5</a></p>
				</td>
			</tr>
		</table>
	</body>
</html>