<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:mil="https://tigersmuseum.github.io/history/concepts/taxonomy.xhtml#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="signal.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<link type="text/css" href="intsum.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>11Bde - Sep14 - App6</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1486/2/01, pp 32-38"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade, September 1914, Appendix 6"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>11th Infantry Brigade, War Diary, September 1914</h1>
<h2>Appendix 6</h2>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> <span typeof="mil:unit" content="11 Bde">Brig Gen Hunter Weston</span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> SH 41</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> First</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
It is not proposed that the outposts found by the troops in various areas should link up. You will therefore be responsible for the protection of the whole perimeter of your area. The area at <span class="place">FRESNOY</span> and the combined areas of <span class="place">BARON</span> &amp; <span class="place">VERSIGNY</span> are each providing their own protection. <span class="stop">AAA</span> Divn HdQrs is at <span class="place">BARON</span>.
</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td typeof="mil:unit" content="4 Div">4. Div.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td><span class="place">BARON</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><datetime content="1914-09-01 18:00">6 pm</datetime></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> <span typeof="mil:unit" content="11 Bde">Eleventh Brigade</span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> G 37</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> First</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
Reference my G26 Innis. Fus. now at <span class="place">RARAY</span> are quite happy. Report that they were in difficulties incorrect <span class="stop">aaa</span> You can now therefore retire by a shorter way <span class="stop">aaa</span> You are to act as rearguard to the force till you reach the line <span class="place">MT CARNON</span> - <span class="place">RARAY</span> when rearguard duties will be taken over by 12 &amp; 19 Brigades and  you will march and take up position at <span class="place">FRESNOY LE LUST</span>. 10th Brig evacuating wounded &amp; captured German guns from <span class="place">NERY</span>. Get in communication with them <span class="stop">aaa</span> They have been ordered to retire through 19 &amp; 12 Brigs on the line <span class="place">DUCY</span> - <span class="place">BOASNES</span>. Innis Fus have been ordered back to <span class="place">BEAULIEU LE NEUF</span> where they will rejoin the Brigade. 12 and 19 Brigs as soon as they have covered retirement of 10 &amp; 11 Brigs will retire to <span class="place">BEAULIEU LE NEUF</span> and <span class="place">MONTEPILLOY</span> respectively.
</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td typeof="mil:unit" content="4 Div">4. Div.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td><span class="place"><span class="place">RARAY</span></span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><datetime content="1914-09-01 12:45">12.45pm</datetime></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> <span typeof="mil:unit" content="11 Bde">Eleventh Brigade</span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> G 26</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> First</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
Orders received from Corps HdQrs that we are to retire slowly first on line <span class="place">Mt CORNON</span> - <span class="place">CHAMICY</span> then on <span class="place">FRESNOY LE LUST</span> - <span class="place">MONTEPILLOY</span> <span class="stop">aaa</span> General situation 9.30 am -
12th Brig <span class="place">Mt CORNON</span>, 10th Brig between <span class="place">SUCITERIE DE NERY</span> and <span class="place">LA BOISSIERE Fe</span> with one battn at <span class="place">NERY</span>.
19th Brig <span class="place">FAY Fe</span> helping BRIGGS who is said to be engaged with Germans at <span class="place">VANCELLES</span>. <span class="stop">aaa</span> Inniskilling detatched from 12th Brig are about <span class="place">ST VAAST</span>. They have been shelled in <span class="place">VERBERIE</span> and had better come under you. This is your authority to take them over for the present. Gen wishes you to retire approximately on the line <span class="place">DE LONGMONT</span> <span class="place">point 126</span> <span class="place">RARAY</span> - <span class="place">CHAMICY</span> withdrawing the Inniskillings as you pass <span class="place">ST VAAST</span> and letting 19th Brig know what you are doing if possible. Latter should retire by <span class="place">FAY Fe</span> <span class="place">LA BARDE Fe</span> - <span class="place">RULLY</span> keeping touch with you and 10th Brig. If you can get in touch with them pass this message on at once. Div H.Q. will move at 10 am to North end <span class="place">RULLY</span>.
</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td typeof="mil:unit" content="4 Div">Fourth Division</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td><span class="place">Point 126</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><datetime content="1914-09-01 09:45">9.45pm</datetime></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> <span typeof="mil:unit">HANTS - E.LAN - SOMERSETS - RIF BRIG - 14 Bde R.F.A. - 29th Bde F.F.A. - 7th Fd Co R.E. - 11th Fd Amb</span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> BM 2</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> First</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>The 4th Div moves today in the direction of <span class="place">BARON</span> via <span class="place">BULLY</span></p>
<p>(2) March will begin on 2 roads, but the column will join on to one road at point indicated later and thence continue to <span class="place">BARON</span>.</p>
<p>(3) Each unit must ensure being in touch with the unit in front of it, so that there may be no delay in moving off.</p>
<p>(4) The rearguard of Eastern column in which the 11th INF BRIG are included will be joined by the 32nd Bde R.F.A. on reaching <span class="place"><span class="place">LA BARDE Fe</span> (1 mile N.E. of <span class="place">RARAY</span>)</span> and take over rear guard duties for whole div.</p>
<p>(5) 11th Fd AMB at <span class="place">VILLENEUVE</span> will join the column at <span class="place">RARAY</span> and follow the 10th Fd AMB. All men unable to march will be carried by Fd AMB and not on wagons of units.</p>
<p>(6) Refilling point for 4th DIV <span class="place">St MARD</span>.</p>
<p>(7) Reports to present hdqrs till march beings then to head of rear guard.</p>
<p>(8) The 1st line transport (less fighting portion, E.LAN &amp; HANTS) will follow the 7th Fd Coy R.E. under Lt MacMullen E. LAN.</p>
<p>Times of arrival at starting Pt will be notified as soon as received.</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td typeof="mil:unit" content="11 Bde">ELEVENTH INF BRIG</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td><span class="place">COURCELLES</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><datetime content="1914-09-01"></datetime></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> <span typeof="mil:unit" content="4 Div">ROURTH DIV</span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> B.M. 4</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> First</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>The bearer of this message (Capt O'Mahoney) reports that a force of German Cavalry, strength a division which advanced from the direction of <span class="place">PIERREFONDS</span> towards <span class="place">ROCQUEMONT</span> being repulsed by gun and rifle fire, retired hurriedly in a S.E. or E. direction. <span class="stop">AAA</span> I an holding the <span class="place"><span class="place">St SAUVEUR</span> ridge</span> with infantry (2 bns) along the bottom of the hill. As the right of this front line is rather in the air, I am withdrawing it to take up a <span class="doubtful">shore</span> position on <span class="place">the <span class="place"><span class="place">St SAUVEUR</span> ridge</span>, N of <span class="place">BETHISY</span></span> facing N and E. I have pushed forward one bn in the direction of the firing this morning to occupy <span class="place">the high ground S of <span class="place">BETHISY</span></span>. <span class="stop">AAA</span> My infantry N of <span class="place">St SAUVEUR</span> have been firing at a few of the enemy's patrols. I shall continue to hold the <span class="place">St SAUVEUR</span> position <span class="stop">AAA</span> I should add that from what Capt O'Mahoney states there would appear to be no German Infantry in the immediate vicinity. <span class="stop">AAA</span> I suggest that this officer's motor would be very valuable for inter-communication between you and me until I leave the <span class="place">St SAUVEUR</span> position.</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td typeof="mil:unit" content="11 Bde">ELEVENTH INF BRIG</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td><span class="place">COURCELLES</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><datetime content="1914-09-01 07:32">7.32 am</datetime></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> <span typeof="mil:unit" content="11 Bde">Eleventh Brigade</span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> One</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> 1/9/14</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>Our position is as follows. One Coy direct on <span class="place">St LUCE FARM</span> and nearby there one Coy in position facing <span class="place">NERY</span> on the edge of the <span class="place">ravine half mile South of the V of <span class="place">VAUCELLE</span></span>. Two Coys in reserve about the <span class="place">first E of <span class="place">VAUCELLE</span></span> <span class="stop">AAA</span> About a squadron of the cavalry has reached <span class="place">ST LUCE</span>.</p>
<p>There appears to be a general advance of our troops from the direction of <span class="place">SAINTINES</span> towards <span class="place">NERY</span> and <span class="place">the West of <span class="place">NERY</span></span>.</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td typeof="mil:unit" content="1/Rif Brig">Rif Brig</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td><span class="place">just E of VAUCELLE</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><datetime content="1914-09-01 08:33">8.33 am</datetime></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>


<article>
<h3>Operation Order No 1</h3>
<h3>Chateau of VERBERIE</h3>
<h3>1-9-14</h3>
<p>Reference BEAUVAIS &amp; SOISSIONS sheet.</p>
<p>
1.(a)&nbsp; The 4th Divisopn &amp; 19th Inf Brig will move today in direction of <span class="place">BARON</span> via <span class="place">BULLY</span>.
</p>
<p>
2. &nbsp; The march will begin on two roads but the column will join on to one road near <span class="place">RARAY</span> at a point which will be indicated, and continue the march to <span class="place">BARON</span> in one column.
</p>
<p>March table attached. Troops to be ready to move at 7am.</p>
<p>
3. &nbsp; The time of starting of the first unit in each column will be notified as soon as orders are received from Army Corps H.Q.
</p>
<p>Each unit must ensure being in touch with the unit in front of it on the line of march so that there may be no delay in moving off when the order to march is received.</p>
<p>
4. &nbsp; Div Amm Col will start for <span class="place">BARON</span> at 4 am and the Train at 5 am. 19th Inf Brig Train and Amm Col with march with the 4th Div Train.
</p>
<p>
5. &nbsp; The Rear Guard of eastern column on reaching <span class="place">LA BARDE Fe</span> will be joined by the 32 FAB and will then take over the duties of rear guard to whole division.
</p>
<p>Cyclist Co. North Irish Horse &amp; 10th Fd Ambce will send representations to 11th Inf Brig by 5 am for orders.</p>
<p>The rearguard of the western column will remain out until rear of its main body has reached neighbourhood <span class="place">RARAY</span> when it will hand over its duties as rearguard to rearguard of eastern column and rejoin its brigade at the first opportunity.</p>
<p>11th Fd Ambce at <span class="place">VILLENEUVE</span> will join the column at <span class="place">RARAY</span> and will march in rear of 10th Fd Ambce.</p>
<p>
6. &nbsp; All men unable to march will be carried by Fd Ambce and not on wagons of units.
</p>
<p>
7. &nbsp; Refilling point for 4th Div and 19th Inf Brig will be at <span class="place">ST MARD</span>.
</p>
<p>
8. &nbsp; Reports to <span class="place">CHATEAU VERBERIE</span> till march commences, after that to head of western column, and after <span class="place">RARAY</span> at head of Division.
</p>
<p class="signature">Lt Col, Gen Staff 4th Division</p>
<p>Issued at 2 am</p>
</article>

</body>
</html>

