<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
		<link type="text/css" href="diary.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
		<title>December 1914</title>
		<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
		<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1486/3/02, pp 2-20"/>
		<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade War Diary, December 1914"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>War Diary – 11 Inf Bde</h1>
		<p>December 1914</p>
		<table>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Hour, Date, Place</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Summary of Events and Information</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Remarks</p>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					1<sup>st</sup> Dec. &nbsp; 4.5 am <br/><span class="place">Pt 20 Farm</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Situation reported normal.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M.1, B.M.13 App 86
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					6.50 pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Shelling.</p>
				<table>
				<tr><td>Somerset section</td><td>nil</td></tr>
				<tr><td>Rif Brig section</td><td>nil</td></tr>
				<tr><td>Hants section</td><td>nil</td></tr>
				<tr><td>E Lan section</td><td>8 small shells on left trench about 9.15 am. None blind.</td></tr>
				</table>
				<p>Work.</p>
				<table>
				<tr><td>Somerset section</td><td>Right trench reconstructed owing to flooding.</td></tr>
				<tr><td>Rif Brig section</td><td>Breastwork in firing line improved. Supporting trenches for Hants continued. Wire put out.</td></tr>
				<tr><td>Hants section</td><td>Main trench improved. <span class="doubtful">facings</span> made, faggots collected.</td></tr>
				<tr><td>E Lan section</td><td>Work on 2nd line trench &amp; communication trench to Convent. Fire trenches deepened &amp; cleaned.</td></tr>
				</table>
				<p>200 men work on main Breastwork line</p>
				<p>new German trench dug south of south <span class="doubtful">face</span> of left trench of Somersets.</p>
				<p>Following reinforcements joined night of 30th Nov. Somersets 1 officer, 50 O.R. E Lan 1 officers 154 O.R. Rif Brig. 25 O.R.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<table>
					<tr><th/><th>K</th><th>W</th><th>S</th></tr>
					<tr><td>Somersets</td><td>-</td><td>1</td><td>-</td></tr>
					<tr><td>E. Lan</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td></tr>
					<tr><td>Hants</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>4</td></tr>
					<tr><td>Rif Brig</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>7</td></tr>
					<tr><td>London RB</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>20</td></tr>
					<tr><th>Total 32</th><th>-</th><th>-</th><th>31</th></tr>
					</table>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Hour, Date, Place</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Summary of Events and Information</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Remarks</p>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					2<sup>nd</sup> Dec. &nbsp; 4 am <br/><span class="place">Pt 20 Farm</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Situation reported normal.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M.1, B.M.3 App 87
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					9.5 am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Somersets report work on new German trench stopped. Mostly demolished by shell fire yesterday.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					6.25 pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Shelling. More than usual.</p>
				<table>
				<tr><td>Somerset section</td><td>About 2 heavy howitzers &amp; 4 shrapnel an hour from WARNETON &amp; DEULMONT directions. None blind.</td></tr>
				<tr><td>Rif Brig section</td><td>5 white holes near trenches. 2 blind in front.</td></tr>
				<tr><td>Hants section</td><td>Small gun fired 12 shells about 10 a.m. at end of main trench by tunnel. 2 blind.</td></tr>
				<tr><td>E Lan section</td><td>10 heavy shells at Convent about 10 a.m. &amp; again at 2 p.m. 10 more. 2 blind. 10 Little Willies at Burnt Fm in front of Convent. 12 large shells over left trench about 10 a.m.</td></tr>
				</table>
				<p>Work.</p>
				<p>150 men in two reliefs in Breastwork line. London RB on 2nd line.</p>
				<table>
				<tr><td>Somerset section</td><td>Communication trench dug. Latrines &amp; drainage improved.</td></tr>
				<tr><td>Rif Brig section</td><td>Construction of overhead cover &amp; obstacles continued.</td></tr>
				<tr><td>Hants section</td><td>Wiring &amp; obstacles continued. Communications trenches deepened etc.</td></tr>
				<tr><td>E Lan section</td><td>Work on 2nd line trench &amp; communication trenches continued also fallen in trenches revetted.</td></tr>
				</table>
				<p>No movement except reoccupation of GERMAN HOUSE.</p>
				<p>HIS MAJESTY visited NIEPPE &amp; inspected detachments of the Brigade.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<table>
					<tr><th/><th>K</th><th>W</th><th>S</th></tr>
					<tr><td>Somersets</td><td>-</td><td>1</td><td>-</td></tr>
					<tr><td>E. Lan</td><td>-</td><td>1</td><td>-</td></tr>
					<tr><td>Hants</td><td>1</td><td>1</td><td>3</td></tr>
					<tr><td>Rif Brig</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>4</td></tr>
					<tr><td>London RB</td><td>-</td><td>1</td><td>8</td></tr>
					<tr><th>Total 23</th><th>2</th><th>6</th><th>15</th></tr>
					</table>
				</td>
			</tr>
		</table>
	</body>
</html>