<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:mil="https://tigersmuseum.github.io/history/concepts/taxonomy.xhtml#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="signal.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<link type="text/css" href="intsum.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>11Bde - Aug14 - App5</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1486/1, pp 67-70"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade, August 1914, Appendix 5"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>11th Infantry Brigade, War Diary, August 1914</h1>
<h2>Appendix 5</h2>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> Som LI - E. Lancs - Hants - 9 Coy RE - Div Am Col.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> B.M. 6</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> 31st</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
All transport (2nd line) and supply wagons must be at the top of the hill about <span class="place">FAYFE FARM</span> tonight. They will proceed by <span class="place">the road leading through the second I in <span class="place">SAINTINES</span></span>.
</p>

<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td>Eleventh Bde</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td>Road junction just W of C in <span class="place">Courselle</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td>11.40 pm</td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> 4th Div
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> B.M. 3</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> Thirty first</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
On visiting the outpost line from <span class="place">St. SAUVEUR</span> - <span class="place">MALINAUX</span> - <span class="place">HOURPARI</span> I found the 4th Middlesex Regt had taken up outposts on this line intermingled with the E. LAN. Regt which already held it. I instructed the Middlesex Regt to withdraw their <span class="doubtful">groups</span> and form a support to the E. LAN pending further instructions. As placed the two lines of outposts were a serious menace to each other.
</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td>Brig. Maj. 11th Inf Brig</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td>St SAUVEUR</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><datetime content="1914-08-30 08:30">9.29 pm</datetime></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> 4th Div
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> B.M. 1</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> Thirtyfirst</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
The Brig will move west this morning via <span class="place">ST JEAN AU BOIS</span> - <span class="place">ST SAUVEUR</span>. The 10th &amp; 12th BRIGS will be moving via <span class="place">PUITS DU ROI</span> - <span class="place">PONT DE LA CROIX</span> - <span class="place">VERBERIE</span>.
</p>
<p>
<span class="underline">STARTING POINT</span> - <span class="place">Railway bridge pt 87</span>. This will be pointed out to units by Bde Maj &amp; Staff Capt - the heads of units will arrive at starting point as follows:-
</p>
<p>
<span class="underline">ADVANCE GUARD</span>
<br/>1 Bn R.B. &nbsp;Comdr Col BIDDULPH
</p>
<table>
<tr>
<td>9th Fd Co R.E.</td><td> 7 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11th Inf Bde (less 1 bn)<br/>1 Coy of Hants</td><td> 7.5 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>32nd Bde R.F.A.</td><td> 8.50 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Train 11th I B (less supply sects)</td><td> 10.15 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rear Gd (1 Coy Hants Rgt)</td><td> 10.45 am</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p>
Order of march 11th Inf Brig:-
</p>
<p>
SOM. L. I. 7.5 am. E LAN 7.10 am - HANTS 7.15 am
</p>
<p>
2.&nbsp; All sick will be evacuated by supply section of train to refilling point.
</p>
<p>
3.&nbsp; Refilling point will be on <span class="place">fork roads at first V at <span class="place">VILLENEUYE</span></span>.
</p>
<p>
4.&nbsp; Reports to head of Left column.
</p>
<p>
5.&nbsp; Mounted representatives of units will meet the Brigade Major and Staff Captain at <span class="place">the MARIE</span> at 6.30 am when they will be shown the route to the starting point.
</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td>11th Inf Bde</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td><span class="place">CHATEAU PRIORIE</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><datetime content="1914-08-30 08:30">5.20 a.m.</datetime></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article>
<h3>Operation Order No 1</h3>
<h3>Appendix to the Op order No 1 of 31 August</h3>
<h3>31.8.14</h3>
<p>
1.(a)&nbsp; The French met with great success in the neighbourhood of <span class="place">GUISE</span>, where the German Guard &amp; 10th Corp were driven back to <span class="place">the OISE</span>. The French forces were also engaged yesterday in the direction of <span class="place">PERONNE</span>.
</p>
<p>
b)&nbsp; Our Cavalry are holding <span class="place">the OISE</span> south of <span class="place">COMPIEGNE</span>. The Secornd Army Corps advances on our left.
</p><p>
2.&nbsp; The Fourth Div. will move west in two columns today, as shown in the march table attached. Each column will find a small rear guard.
</p>
<p>
3.&nbsp; All sick will be evacuated by supply secns of train to refilling point.
</p>
<p>
4.&nbsp; Railhead &amp; supply rendezvous for supply column - <span class="place"><span class="place">LE PLESSIS BELLVILLE</span> (15 miles S.W. of <span class="place">CREPY</span>)</span>.
</p>
<p>
5.&nbsp; Refilling point will be on <span class="place">fork of roads at first V of <span class="place">VILLENEUVE</span></span>.
</p>
<p>
6.&nbsp; 12th Fd Ambce will detail medical officer, 3 Fd ambces &amp; necessay personell to accompany right column &amp; march in rear. 10th Fd Ambce will detail medical officer &amp; 1 Fd ambce and necessary personell to accompany left column &amp; march in rear.
</p>
<p>
[page torn] Reports to head of left column.
</p>

<p>[Signed]</p>
<p>Issued at 2.15 am</p>
</article>

<article>
<h3>Appendix to Op Order No 1 of 31.8.14</h3>
<h3>March Table</h3>
<table>
<tr>
<th>Unit</th>
<th>Starting Point</th>
<th>Starting Time</th>
<th>Route</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="4">
<h4>Right Column</h4>
<p>Comdr Brig. Gen. Wilson 12th I.B.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<p>Advanced&nbsp;Guard</p>
<p>1&nbsp;Bn.&nbsp;10th&nbsp;I.B.</p>
</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><span class="place">Cross roads 1 mile west of <span class="place">MOUNT BERNY</span></span> - <span class="place">PUITS DU ROI</span> - <span class="place">PONT DE LA CROIX</span> - <span class="place">VERBERIE</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="4">
<h4>Main Body</h4>
<p>Comdr Brig. Gen. Wilson 12th I.B.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<p>10th I.B. (less 1 Bn)</p>
</td>
<td><span class="place">Cross roads 1 mile west of <span class="place">MOUNT BERNY</span></span></td>
<td>7 am</td>
<td></td>
</tr>fproo
<tr>
<td>
<p>19th I.B.</p>
</td>
<td>- " -</td>
<td>7.25 am</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<p>12th I.B.</p>
</td>
<td>- " -</td>
<td>8.10 am</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<p>3 Fd ambces of 12th Fd Ambce</p>
</td>
<td>- " -</td>
<td>8.35 am</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="4">
<h4>Left Column</h4>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<p>Advanced&nbsp;Guard</p>
<p>1&nbsp;Bn.&nbsp;11th&nbsp;I.B.</p>
<p>Div Cyclist Co.</p>
</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="4">
<h4>Main Body</h4>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Div. H.Q.
</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>6.50 am</td>
<td rowspan="16" valign="top">
<p><span class="place">RUE MELONN</span> - <span class="place">ST JEAN AUX BOIS</span> - <span class="place">ST SAUVEUR</span></p>
<p>"A" starting point is <span class="place">the cross roads &frac12; mile S.W. of <span class="place">MOUNT BERNY</span></span></p>
<p>"B" starting point is <span class="place">the cross roads by the F in <span class="place">FONTENOY</span></span></p>
<p>Troops in 12th Brig area using 'B' starting point must not pass through the <span class="place">cross roads 1 mile west of <span class="place">MOUNT BERNY</span></span></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
9th Fd Co. R.E.
</td>
<td>D</td>
<td>6.55 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
11th I.B. (less 1 Bn)
</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>7 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
29th F.A.B.
</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>7.15 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
14th F.A.B.
</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>7.45 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
1 Bn 11th I.B. (less 1 Co)
</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>8.15 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
37th F.A.B.
</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>8.10 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
32nd F.A.B.
</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>8.45</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
7th Fd Co. R.E.
</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>9.5 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
10th Fd. Ambce.
</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>9.20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
12th Fd. Ambce. (less 3 ambces)
</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>9.15</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Fd. Vet. Secn.<br/>
Train (less supply secns.)
</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>9.25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
12th I.B.
</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>9.40</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
10th I.B.
</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>9.55</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
11th I.B.
</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>10.10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Div. Am. Col.
</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>10.35</td>
</tr>
</table>

<h3>Rear Guard</h3>
<p>1 Co. 11th I.B.</p>
</article>

<hr/>
</body>
</html>

