<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
		<link type="text/css" href="diary.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
		<title>October 1914</title>
		<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
		<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1486/3/01, pp 1-21"/>
		<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade War Diary, October 1914"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>War Diary – 11 Inf Bde</h1>
		<p>October 1914</p>
		<table>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Hour, Date, Place</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Summary of Events and Information</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Remarks</p>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Confidential orders received in afternoon for the 4th Division to extend its right and take over the trenches occupoed by the 5th Division to enable the latter to withdraw.
				The 11th Infantry Brigade took over trenches originally occupied by the Dublin Fusiliers; for disposition of Battalions see App 27.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 27
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					11pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Somersets advanced post killed 4 germans (Pomeranians). Situation otherwise unchanged.</p>
				<p>Note - Number of sick evacuated in the Brigade during the week 25th Sept - 1st Oct inclusive = 28.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 2<sup>nd</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Situation unchanged.</p>
				<p>The Rifle Brigade shot 8 germans during the day, and it is now reported that 6 were shot last night making a total of 14.</p>
				<p>Summary of Information to 30th Sept and "Tall Tales from the Trenches" is attached to App 28.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 28
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Situation unchanged.</p>
				<p>Gen Sir H. Rawlinson inspected trenches of Hants &amp; R.B. in the early morning.</p>
				<p>The R.B. dug new forward trenches N.W. of <span class="place">LA MONTAGNE Fm</span> to join up with the new trenches of the Seaforth Highlanders, during the night Oct 3rd-4th.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 29
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 4<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Situation unchanged.</p>
				<p>R.B. new trenches further improved. Quiet day. No casualties.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 5<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span><br/> 10am<br/> 8pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Situation unchanged.</p>
				<p>Order to move received at 10am, but cancelled at 4.30pm owing to the French being unable to take over.</p>
				<p>The E. Lancs <span class="doubtful">?</span> bulk of transport at 8pm.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 30
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 6<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Situation unchanged.</p>
				<p>Moved to <span class="place">BUZANCY</span> and <span class="place">VILLEMONTOIRE</span> after dark. The remainder of transport left about 6.30pm, the two reserve companies per Battalion at 7.30pm, and the remaining two companies from the trenches at 1am. Somersets and B.H.Qrs billeted at the <span class="place">CHATEAU <span class="place">BUZANCY</span></span>. The Hants and Rifle Brigade at <span class="place">VILLEMONTOIRE</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 31
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 7<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUZANCY</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Stayed all day in billets. The Brigade left shortly after midnight and marched via <span class="place">HARTENNES</span> to <span class="place">PLESSIER-HULEU</span> and <span class="place">BILLY-SUR-OURQ</span> in which places it billeted.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 32
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 8<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">PLESSIER-HULEU</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Marched at 4.30 pm via <span class="place">ST. REMY</span> - <span class="place">CORCY</span> - <span class="place">FLEURY</span> where there was a 2 hour halt - <span class="place">VILLERS-COTTERETS</span> and were billeted at 2am in <span class="place">LAGNY</span> and <span class="place">VEZ</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 33
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 9<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">LAGNY</span> and <span class="place">VEZ</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Brigade moved about 2.30pm &amp; marched via <span class="place">LE PRESSOU</span> - <span class="place">ELMCOURT</span> - <span class="place">ORROUY</span> arrived 7pm and billeted at <span class="place">BETHISY</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 34
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 10<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BETHISY</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Brigade moved about 3pm; the Somersets and E. Lancs to entrain at <span class="place">COMPIÈGNE</span>. B.H.Qrs, HANTS, Rifle Bde marched via <span class="place">MERVILLERS</span> to <span class="place">ESTRÉES-ST-DENIS</span> wher they entrained at 11pm.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 35
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 11<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; In Train
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Train left at 2.30am via <span class="place">ABBEVILLE</span> and <span class="place">CALAIS</span> to <span class="place">ST. OMER</span> arriving about 5.30pm and the Brigade marched to billets at <span class="place">BLENDECQUES</span> arriving at 7pm.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 12<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BLENDECQUES</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Motor busses were expected at 1pm, they began to arrive in small numbers at 8pm and it was not until 1.30am next morning that the whole Brigade had started to move, and the lat bus load finally reached <span class="place">HONDEGHEM</span> at 6am on Oct 13th, the distance was only 12 miles.</p>
				<p>The transport was ordered to move at 11.30am and arrived at 4.30pm many hours in advance of the infantry, with nothing to cover it from attack: a position of great insecurity!</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 36
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 13<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">HONDEGHEM</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The 11th Inf Brigade marched at 10am as reserve to the 4th Div, the 10th Brigade finding the advanced guard. Opposition was met about <span class="place">METEREN</span> but the 11th Brigade was not drawn into the fight and billeted at <span class="place">FLÈTRE</span>. The HANTS had been taken away about 5pm as a reserve to the 12th Brigade. The SOMERSETS foud outposts east of <span class="place">FLÈTRE</span>.</p>
				<p>Steady rain in the afternoon.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 37
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 14<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">FLÊTRE</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Brigade moved at 9am in a north-easterly direction towards <span class="place">MONT NOIR</span>, but after 2 miles this march was diverted to <span class="place">METEREN</span>, thence to <span class="place">BAILLEUL</span> again as an advanced guard. The E. Lancs and Rifle Brigade found outposts along the line of V in <span class="place">NEUVE ÉGLISE</span> - <span class="place">Pt 40</span>. The Hants and Somersets billeted in the <span class="place">lunatic asylum</span>. B.H.Qrs at <span class="place">Pt 77</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 38
				<br/>Ref OSTEND sheet SET 'A' sheet I, 1:100000
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 15<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BAILLEUL</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The 11th Inf Brigade again furnished advanced guard, &amp; moved about 5 pm along main <span class="place">BAILLEUL</span> - <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span> road. No opposition was met with as far as <span class="place">cross roads &frac12; mile North of <span class="place">RABOT</span></span>. From this place a night attack on <span class="place">NIEPPE</span> and <span class="place">ERQUINGHEM</span> bridge was made. E. LANCS to attack <span class="place">NIEPPE</span> from the North via ROMERIN, the HANTS due East along the main road, and the Somersets with the RB in reserve and 2 sections RE to attack the <span class="place">ERQUINGHEM</span> bridge.</p>
				<p><span class="place">NIEPPE</span> was entered unopposed and a reconnaissance proved the <span class="place">ERQUINGHEM</span> bridge intact and not held. At midnight an order was received from Army H.Qrs not to proceed further: Units were therefore billeted for the night with adequate protection. The Hants had 12 casualties, being fired on by machine guns about the bridge over the river between <span class="place">NIEPPE</span> and <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span>.</p>
				<p>Sepecial appendix of documents &amp; sketches held back is here inserted.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 39 <br/>Special App 1
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					October 16<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">Cross Roads &frac12;m N of R of <span class="place">RABOT</span></span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>No change in situation. HANTS in billets in <span class="place">NIEPPE</span> with outpost line across main road &frac12; a mile East of <span class="place">NIEPPE</span>. Somersets continuing the line to the South through HALTE to LE MENEGATE afterwards pushing forward to <span class="place">ERQUINGHEM</span> bridge which they held.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 40
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct16<sup>th</sup> cont'd &nbsp; 4pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>At 4pm an attack was made on some machine guns which were holding the <span class="place">PONT DE NIEPPE</span>. After shelling the barricade for a short time the enemy retired, and the Hants occupied the bridge. The 12th Brigade moved to billets about <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>, the 10th Brig moving up from <span class="place">BAILLEUL</span> to billets about <span class="place">LA CRÈCHE</span>. Quiet night.</p>
				<p>Special order of the day of 16th Oct and Summary of Information 16th Oct is att'd to App 40. Also Summary of Information Oct 18th.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 17<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">Cross Roads &frac12;m N of R of <span class="place">RABOT</span></span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>10th Brigade moved forward at 7am via <span class="place">ERQUINGHEM</span> bridge through <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span> to a line about 1 mile east of this town. 12th Brigade held line from <span class="place">HOUPLINES</span> to <span class="place">LE GHEER</span>. The 11th Brigade in reserve in yesterdays billets. Bat'ns dug in.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 41
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 18<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">Cross Roads &frac12;m N of R of <span class="place">RABOT</span></span> <br/> 6.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Headquartes left <span class="place">ESTAMINET AU SEAU</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td rowspan="5">
				App 42 <br/>
				(Order of the day 17th Oct and Composition of XIX Saxon Corps is attached to App 42)
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					7am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>11th Brigade was assembled at <span class="place">NIEPPE</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					10.34am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>11th Brigade marched to billets about <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span>, E. LANCS and RB at the <span class="place">lunatic asylum</span>, S.L.I. and HANTS near <span class="place">Railway station</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					4.30pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Brigade orderd to attack <span class="place">PREVOTÉ</span> in order to fill gap between 6th Division and the right of the 10th Brigade, but B.G.C. having ascetained that the gap was already filled and darkness coming on, decided not to act on these orders.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>During the night E. LANCS dug trenches astride <span class="place">Railway about 800<sup>x</sup> east of <span class="place">Asylum</span></span> facing east. RB remained in bivouac at <span class="place">asylum</span>. <span class="place">L'EPINETTE</span> was captured by 10th  Brigade during the night 18th-19th.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 19<sup>th</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place"><span class="place">Rly station</span> HOTEL</span>. <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. moved to deep trenches on <span class="place">east side of railway immediately east of <span class="place">asylum</span></span>. HANTS to billets on road 400<sup>x</sup> south of <span class="place">station</span>, SOMERSETS <span class="place">just south of Railway on <span class="place">ERQUINHEM</span> road</span>, these two battalions being in Corps reserve. E.LANCS remained in trenches. A quiet day.</p>
				<p>R.B. moved to <span class="place">HOUPLINES</span> in evening, they and E. LANCS to serve Divisional reserve. HANTS moved back to <span class="place">station</span>.</p>
				<p>3rd Army HdQrs established in <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 43 <br/>
				(Summary of Information Oct 18th is attached to App 43)
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 20<sup>th</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place"><span class="place">Station</span> HOTEL</span>. <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span>. <br/> 1am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>In operation orders. Whole Brigade ordered to form Divisional Reserve.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p><span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span> shelled for a short time by howitzers.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.15am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS moved from <span class="place">station</span> to <span class="place"><span class="place">ERQUINGHEM</span> road just North of Railway</span> for safety.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				9.50am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>E. Lancs sent to reinforce 17th Brigade owing to <span class="place">PREMESQUES</span> having been taken by enemy. This battalion was held in reserve at <span class="place">WEX MACQUART</span> being ordered to dig trenches east of this place facing east as a second line of defence.</p>
				</td>
				<td rowspan="3">
				vide E.L 20 <br/>
				App 44 <br/>
				(Composition of VII Corps and Summary of Information &amp; sketch Oct 19th is attached to App 44)
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				12.30pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS ordered to move forward to establish 3 posts east of <span class="place">lunatic asylum</span> 3 Coys in front and 1 in reserve, the whole as a second line of defence behind the WARWICKS and DUBLIN FUSILIERS.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1.15pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS ordered to proceed to <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span> to check enemy who appeared to be attempting to turn the left flank of the 12th Brigade, they marched via <span class="place">PONT DE NIEPPE</span> and <span class="place">LE BIZET</span>. They came under orders of B.G.C. 12th Brigade.</p>
				<p>During the afternoon the R.B. dug trenches North east of <span class="place">HOUPLINES</span> under orders of B.G.C. 10th Brigade.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				2pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Som L.I. and E. Lancs ordered to form Corps reserve.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Ref GGG5
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.10pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>11th Inf Brigade revert under command of G.O.C. 4th Div.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G 315
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.25pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Operation orders received q.v with regard to disposition of 11th Brig.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.40pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>10th Brig report disposition of R.B. at <span class="place">HOUPLINES</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				H 177
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 21<sup>st</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">Point 63</span> <br/> 3am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>11th Brig HQrs, E. LANCS less a company and a platoon with 1st and 2nd echelon transport left <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span>, crossing river by pontoon bridge via <span class="place">LE BIZET</span> to <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td rowspan="2">
				App 45
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Heavy firing heard east of road near <span class="place">LE GHEER</span> which afterwards proved to have resulted in the capture of <span class="place">LE GHEER</span> by the enemy.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				Oct 21<sup>st</sup> (cont'd) <br/> 6am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>E. LANCS less a company and a platoon reached <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span> and were placed under orders of O.C. 12th Inf Brig who sent them forward to reinforce the INNISKILLEN FUSILIERS, who had been driven back.</p>
				</td>
				<td rowspan="3">
				App 45
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.20am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS arrived at <span class="place">Point 63</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Brig H.Qrs established at <span class="place">Point 63</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS launched to counter attack the enemy who had captured <span class="place">LE GHEER</span>, in cooperation with 2 companies E. LANCS who were ordered to advance against <span class="place">LE GHEER</span> along the south edge of <span class="place">BOIS DE PLOEGSTEERT</span>. The SOMERSETS were ordered to move north of the <span class="place">BOIS DE PLOEGSTEERT</span> through <span class="place">ST YVES</span> and along the east edge of the above wood with the machine guns firing dow the outside of the wood.</p>
				<p>The E. LANCS well led through the wood by CAPT NORTH, staff captain 12th Brig, were able to enfilade a large number of germans along a shallow ditch to the south of the wood, and killed and wounded about 40.</p>
				<p>The SOMERSETS worked south through the east edge of the wood and advancing the attack captured the village of <span class="place">LE GHEER</span> from the north. As soon as the SOMERSETS had captured the village and cut off the retreat of the germans, some INNISKILLENS advanced from the west, and the E. LANCS charged out of the wood to the South. The enemy was completely bewildered and ran in all directions. 130 prisoners were taken and the enemy's casualties are estimated at 1000 at least. We lost 85 Killed and Wounded. - It was a most successful affair very well carried out.</p>
				<p>Detailed accounts of this action from Battalions are attached to App 45.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				In connection with this action messages of congratulation were received from (1) CinC. att'd App46; (2) G.O.C. 4th Div GGG14 App45; (3) G.O.C. 2nd Cav. Div embodied in message from B.G.C. 11th I.Bde to S.L.I. BM4 App45; (4) O.C. 12th Inf Brig <br/>
				The following officers were brought to notice: MAJOR J GREEN; LIEUT &amp; ACT. ADJ. F.E. BELCHIER; LIEUT F.D. HUGHES (All EAST LANCS REGT)
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.27am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p><span class="place">LE GHEER</span> reported recaptured.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				SL 8
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				3pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>2 Coys HANTS rejoined Brigade from <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span>.</p>
				<p>The line of our trenches was heavily shelled in the afternoon.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				4pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Orders were issued for a general defensive line to extend from <span class="place" content="28.U.27.d.5.5">the E of WARNAVE R.</span> to <span class="place" content="28.U.9.b.5.5">the R of <span class="place">DOUVE R.</span></span> to be divided into 3 sections between E. LANCS, SOMERSETS, HANTS from right to left respectively.</p>
				<p>R.B. still at <span class="place">HOUPLINES</span> under 10th Brigade.</p>
				<p>HANTS less 2 Coys at <span class="place">lunatic asylum</span> <span class="place">ARMENTIÈRES</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS less 2 Coys ordered to <span class="place">LE TOUQUET</span> to be under orders of 12th Brigade.</p>
				<p>2 Coys R.B. ordered back to <span class="place">Asylum</span> to be followed by the remainder when they can be spared.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Later, one company HANTS and machine gun relieved KINGS OWN at <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>. One company HANTS sent to LANC. FUSILIERS. Two companies R.B. ordered to <span class="place">LE BIZET</span> to be in Div'n Reserve. 11th Brigade ordered to take over trenches of 12th Brigade as soon as possible.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Operation orders
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 22<sup>nd</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">POINT 63</span>. <br/> 5am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Enemy made an attack along line ST. YVES - <span class="place">LE GHEER</span> - <span class="place">LE TOUQUET</span> but were very easily repulsed.</p>
				<p>2 Coys RB moved to <span class="place">LE BIZET</span> during the night 21st-22nd.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Ref OSTEND MAP, scale 1:100000
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p><span class="place">Crossroads &frac14; mile S of E of WARNAVE</span> reported by 12th Brigade reoccupied during the night without opposition.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M.5
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.24am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The two Coys HANTS on the left of the line placed under command of Mahor Prowse. Two coys SOMERSETS to be in Brig reserve near the junction of the <span class="place">ST YVES</span> road with the main road.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M.8 &nbsp; App 46 (Message of congratulation from C-in-C attached)
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				9.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Brig HdQrs moved to crossroads at <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M.7
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1.55pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. detailed to take over south of the defensive line to <span class="place">crossroads &frac14; mile SE of V in WARNAVE R</span> not inclusive.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M.15
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				4.30pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Dispositions of Brigade to be assumed during night are detailed in BM16 attached to App 46.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M.16
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				9.15pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Report sent to 4th Div on position of Enemy's machine guns.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M.19
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.59pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS report 2 coys in trenches, one in reserve, one still at <span class="place">LE TOUQUET</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M.19
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 23<sup>rd</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span> Xroads. <br/> 7am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>11th Brigade reported established on north &amp; south line between rivers <span class="place">LYS</span> and <span class="place">DOUVE</span> vide App 47.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 5. &nbsp; App 47
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>12th Brigade report all its units have been relieved.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 1
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				9.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>RB report having taken over trenches by 9 pm previous night and started a new trench on their right, they ask for R.E. section tonight.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				RB 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.26am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS in trenches with cavalry on their left.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.44am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>E. LANCS ask for a gun to be brought up to destroy a house from which the enemy commanded his trenches.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				EL 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.59am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS report having located 2 enemy machine guns.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				SL 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				12.55pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS send rough sketch of their trenches (attached to App 47).</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.48pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report signalling communication was established with SEAFORTHS on their right at 1.30 pm.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				RB 8
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.30pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Russian victory near WARSAW reported by 4th Div.</p>
				<p>RB sketch map of position of trenches attached to App 47.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G 17
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 24<sup>th</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">CAFÉ ROYAL</span> <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>. <br/> 12.50am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Information received from 4th Div of 1st Corps success on our left 1000 reported dead and 500 prisoners.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G 20
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>An attack by enemy on our trenches commenced extending along the sections occupied by the E. LANCS, SOMERSETS and HANTS. It continued for about an hour, and was easily beaten off. Our artillery afforded valuable support.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.8am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS report that the enemy did not leave their trenches, being prevented from doing so by the excellent shooting of the Artillery.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				SLI
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.15am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report all quiet last night.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.19am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>4th Divn report likelihood of a general attack by Enemy during the day, but it never came off.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 48
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.33am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>32nd Bat RFA report that their howitzers have obtained two direct hits on a house which contained enemy's machine guns.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				105.
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.55am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Headquarters established at <span class="place">CAFÉ ROYAL</span>. <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 13
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				12.2am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Aircraft report received from 4th Divn.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G 6
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				12.noon.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Notification received from 4th Div of the recommendation of Brig Gen Hunter-Weston for immediate promotion.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G 8
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				4.45pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>4th Div reports 1st Corps counted 1500 dead germans and between 600 and 700 prisoners belonging to 23rd Reserve Corps yesterday.</p>
				<p>The following documents are attached to Special Appendix 2:</p>
				<p>(1) Sketch maps showing disposition of company trenches 24.10.14; (2) Russian official communication; (3) Message from C in C; (4) Map showing enemy's trenches as ascertained from aerial observation; (5) Movements of 4th Division; (6) Summary of Information</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Special Appendix 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 25<sup>th</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">CAFÉ ROYAL</span> <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>. <br/> 6am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>All units report a quiet night, &amp; situtation unchanged.</p>
				<p>SOMERSETS report CONNAUGHT RANGERS in position on their left.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				S.LI. &nbsp; App 49
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.39am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>RB suggest that an officer from the SEAFORTHS on their right should come to their observation post and note the position of some terraced houses, which were loopholed, with a view to getting the R.A. to shell these houses if required.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				RB 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>RB report as to advisability of using <span class="place">STATION</span> as a point d'appui to cover any retirement.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				RB 3
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.20pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Report sent to 4th Div that a flare light had been lit at 11pm and sharp machine gun &amp; rifle fire commenced lasting &frac14; of an hour on our centre &amp; left. Also that our lines to 4th Div, E. LANCS &amp; SOMERSETS were disconnected.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 6
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 26<sup>th</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">CAFÉ ROYAL</span> <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>. <br/> 5.40am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>A small attack with machine guns was made on the E. LANCS during the night.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				EL 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.45am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>RB report more sniping than usual during the night, and that owing to the enemy having burnt a stack, it was impossible to work much at entanglements.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.50am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS report situation unchanged. Enemy sent up star shell during the night but made no attack, apparently they feared an attack by us.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				S.LI.
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.45am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Orders given for E. LANCS to releive the two companies in trenches tonight.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Civilian work on reaer line of trenches resumed, supervised by 3 E. LANCS Subaltern officers and Capt SYMONS R.E. This is the third day civilians have been employed at this work, and they have done it remarkably well.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 3
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.50am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Notes re method of taking over trenches in the defensive line issued to units.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 5
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.50am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>RB report germans attacking SEAFORTHS in <span class="place">FRELINGHEM</span>, enfilade fire is brought to bear from R.B. trenches, abd the ARTILLERY cooperate.</p>
				<p>The SEAFORTHS have been obliged to fall back to their prepared rear trenches owing to enemy's shell fire, all other trenches held firmly.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				RB 2 <br/>G 3
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				 Oct 26th (cont'd) <br/>11.50am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report enemy has again retired from in front of the SEAFORTHS.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 3
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				 12 noon
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>1st Cav Brig send report of dispositions and movements of 1st Corps 7th Div and Cavalry Divisions on our left.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G.A. 87
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				 1.15pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report Enemy's heavy shell falling near northern corner of <span class="place">farm North of R in DES RABEQUES</span>. This fire did no damage and only lasted a short time.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 4
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				 6.5pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Orders were received from 4th Div for an officer to proceed to H.Qrs 10th Brig at <span class="place">HOUPLINES</span> to find out the exact position of the left of their second line. The Brig Major went over at 8.30pm.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G.G. 1
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				 9.35pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>4th Div report that the attack of 1st Corps is proceeding favourably. 2 guns have been captured and many prisoners taken.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G.G. 9
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 50 <br/>
				Following documents attached: (1) Message from Lord Kitchener d/. 26.10.14; (2) Information for troops; (3) Memo from 4th Div re method of meeting enemy's heavy bombardment of our trenches; (4) A sketch map showing position of E. LANCS Hants trenches as <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span> 2.10.14
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 27<sup>th</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">CAFÉ ROYAL</span> <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>. <br/> 12.55am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>12th Brig report that the enemy appear to be retiring, confirmation is desired.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G. 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.55am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Report sent to 4th Div'n, after receipt of Bn reports, that situation is normal after quiet night, no indication of retirement of enemy. Patrols report enemy heard erecting obstacles in front of our left section.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.40am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>An instance of successful cooperation between Infantry and Artillery at <span class="place"><span class="place">FRELINGHEM</span> village</span> is reported by B.G.C. to 4th Div'n.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 5
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.19am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>KINGS OWN officer reports to 4th Div having counted 56 dead germans in front of one of their detached forward trenches.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G. 19
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.35am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Sketch map sent in by 14th Brig R.F.A. showing their zone of fire.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 51. (Summary of Information Oct 26th is attached to App 51.)
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.12am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>E. LANCS report enemy shelling houses at <span class="place"><span class="place">LE GHEER</span> cross roads</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				E.L. 1
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>5th DRAGOON GUARDS reported in touch with SOMERSETS left.</p>
				<p>Civilians carried on their work of digging second line trenches during the day.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				12.20pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report having sent out patrol in north easterly direction which drew a good deal of fire. 40 men were counted in one trench.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 7
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS report enemy collecting in farm and wood south east of R in <span class="place">DOUVE R</span> and ask for one reserve company to clear them out, but B.G.C. thinks this inadvisable.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.G. 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.42pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>4th Divn states that arrangements are benig made to shell the above farm.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G. 21
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				Oct 27th (cont'd) <br/>
				10.50pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>4th Div report general situation.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G. 21
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.5pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS are warned that one company may have to act in the direction of <span class="place">LE GHEER</span> tonight &amp; arrangements must be made accordingly.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 19
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 28<sup>th</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">CAFÉ ROYAL</span> <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>. <br/> 3.5am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Somersets report farm buildings referred to last night as well alight but will want shelling again tomorrow.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 52. Attached: (1) Message from Lo Kitchener; (2) Summary of Information 27th Oct; (3) Information about Engagements with the Enemy.
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>All Battalions report quiet night, situation unchanged. The above farm except dwelling house was destroyed by our guns last night.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 1
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>E. LANCS and RB report progress of work on new trenches.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 5, R.B. 2
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.5am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report having seen 200 of the enemy yesterday evening advancing along the west side of <span class="place">FRELINGHEM</span> at a distance of 800 yds with mixed uniforms.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 3
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.5am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report having seen 200 of the enemy yesterday evening advancing along the west side of <span class="place">FRELINGHEM</span> at a distance of 800 yds with mixed uniforms.</p>
				<p>About noon instructions were given for the HANTS to take over the SOMERSETS trenches tonight.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 3 <br/>
				B.M. 3
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				9pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>4th Div report situation unchanged.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G.6
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS report having completed taking over trenches from SOMERSETS.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 29<sup>th</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">CAFÉ ROYAL</span> <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>. <br/> 6am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>All Battalions report situation normal, 11th Brig report to 4th Div.</p>
				<p>A very quiet morning.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 1
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1.37pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>E. LANCS H.Qrs moved from <span class="place">cross roads <span class="place">LE GHEER</span></span> to <span class="place">a farm house 150<sup>x</sup> east on the <span class="place">LE GHEER</span> - <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span> road</span>; their old H.Qr was heavily shelled.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				E.L. 7
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				4.5pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report enemy preparing footbridges over the river, stating that there are alread 3 trestle on the river at one spot. They ask for authority for Artillery to shell it. M.G.C. refers to the 4th Div for their authority.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 29, B.G. 4
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>An attack is commenced on the E. LANCS trenches about <span class="place">LE GHEER</span>, artillery support is promptly asked for from <span class="place">Pt 63</span> and very promptly given with excellent results.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 12-13-15-16-17-18 <br/>
				R.B. 11 <br/>
				E.L. 5-8 <br/>
				vide message from HANTS timed 8.15pm
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.40pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The attack was easily repulsed and all was quiet again by 6.40pm.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.30pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Congratulations were received on the successful repulse of this attack from 4th Div &amp; 10th I. Bde.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G.6, H.86
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				Oct 29th (cont'd) <br/>8.25pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report considerable movement of troops and transport across their front from right to left. They state that their patrols observed one of our shells to fall in the middle of a camp fire and another apparently stampeded their transport.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 14. Also unnumberd message from HANTS received 10.30pm
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				9.35pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>E. LANCS send in sketch of their trenches. vide Appendix 53.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				E.L. 10
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				9.35pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>4th Div report on general situation.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G. 9
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 53 attached: (1) Summary of Information 28th Oct; (2) Sketch of situation of armies on the VISTULA
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 30<sup>th</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">CAFÉ ROYAL</span> <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>. <br/> 6am <br/> 6.35am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>All Battalions report quiet night, but continuous movement of enemy's transport from south to north, this report sent on to 4th Div.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 1
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.20am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS report <span class="place">ST YVES</span> being heavily shelled with Heavies and shrapnel necessitating their moving theitr Headquarters to the edge of the wood South West of <span class="place">ST YVES</span>, this was preliminary to a very heavy artillery bombardment of the whole line of our trenches with no sort of lull till about 11.30 am.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.58am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>At 8 am the SOMERSETS were ordered to bring 2 coys forwards to the cross roads at  <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span> and the E. LANCS two reserve coys to be ready for immediate action.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 5-6
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.5am <br/> 10.27am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Soon after 8 am the enemy's infantry commenced a half hearted attack on the R.B. but were reported retiring at 10.27 and collecting opposite their right centre.</p>
				<p><span class="place">MESSINES</span> on our left was at the same time heavily bombarded.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G. 60
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1.15pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report main attack drifting to their left &amp; dying away in their front.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 15
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1.20pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Aeroplane report situation. vide App 54.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 15
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1.30pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Artillery on <span class="place">Pt 63</span> report Enemy's captive balloon beyond the range of our guns.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				I95
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				2.25pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS report their left centre trench being particularly heavily shelled and attach a report from Lieut ATCHISON stating that the enemy are holding a new trench 400 yds in front of him, and that two of his trenches have been blown to bits.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				2.50pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>O.C. HANTS sends in a further report from LIEUT ATCHISON timed 2.30pm stating that one of their platoons had been practically wiped out and asking for reinforcements.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				2.57pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The enemy at this time appeared to be concentrating in a farm 700 yds east of HANTS left Coy HdQrs and up the <span class="place">river WARNAVE</span>. Artillery cooperation is asked for.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				E.L. 10 <br/>
				B.M. 23-24-40
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				4.6pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS report that their left centre Coy is suffering heavily and that the enemy are establishing themselves within 300 yds of this Coy. Instructions are given to SOMERSETS to reinforce this Coy if possible.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 27-32
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				4.18pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>12th Brigade (in accordance with instructions from 4th Div vide Q13) report that ROYAL INNISKILLEN FUSILIERS are on their way to <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 31
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.3pm <br/>5.10pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS report having sent out one platoon at 4.5pm to reinforce HANTS left centre coy and say they will send another platoon at dusk.</p>
				<p>Later at 5.10pm they send 3 more platoons to reinforce them.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				S.L. 6
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.23
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS left centre trench has been destroyed by shell fire and the situation is reported as critical. The enemy are reported moving from right to left and concentrating between <span class="place">ST YVES</span> and <span class="place">RIVER DOUVE</span>. The 14th Brig R.F.A. is asked to shell them.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 42
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The Div Cyclist Coy is placed at the disposal of O.C. SOMERSETS to hold the main road between <span class="place"><span class="place">MESSINES</span> bridge</span> and the <span class="place">CHATEAU</span>.</p>
				<p>The INNISKILLENS reached <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span> at about this time.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 44
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.13pm <br/> 6.18pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>O.C. 32nd Brig R.F.A. reports that the enemy have broken through our line in the centre of the HANTS trenches, whereupon the M.G.C. sends a company if INNIS FUS to O.C. SOMERSETS so that he may have his whole battalion for offensive action in counter attacking the enemy.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				202 <br/> B.M. 45
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.25pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>O.C. HANTS reports having consulted with O.C. SOMERSETS and states that the latter is restoring his line with one company and a second coy held in reserve. He estimates the enemy's strength as two battalions on left centre and about the same on right centre.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.39pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>1st Cav Div report they are being heavily attacked at <span class="place">MESSINES</span> and have no reserve to cooperate with us.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				Oct 30th (cont'd) <br/>8.18pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>M.G.C. orders Divn Squadron to the trenches N.E. of <span class="place">Pt 63</span> to arrange for protection of guns on <span class="place">Pt 63</span> in conjunction with Div Cyclists. One Coy INNES FUS is occupying <span class="place">the trenches E of <span class="place"><span class="place">MESSINES</span> road</span></span> backing up the HANTS.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 52
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.28pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Major PROWSE is ordered to take direction of affairs on the left.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 53
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.30pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>O.C. SOMERSETS reports he has cleared the situation, but that the trenches which have been so badly damaged by shell fire will require redigging, and arranges accordingly.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.47pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report enemy digging a very strong earthwork in <span class="place">the angle formed by the <span class="place">LE BIZET</span> - <span class="place">LE TOUQUET</span> and the <span class="place">LE GHEER</span> - <span class="place">LE TOUQUET</span> roads</span> about 250 yds from their nearest trench.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 23
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				9.40pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>M.G.C. reports restoration of the situation on his left to 4th Div, and recommends MAJOR PROWSE for immediate promotion to LT COL.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 54
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>CAPT CLAYHILLS report of what has happened during the day received, he states that the enemy's casualties appear to have been small.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.19pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>12th Brig reports that two Coys LANC FUS left at 9.10pm for <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 50
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.40pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>4th Div order LANC FUS less 2 Coys to join other 2 Coys at <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span> by 5am tomorrow.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G 34
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.47pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>2 Coys LANC FUS arrived, &amp; were billeted in old factory, 400 yds S of Brig H.Qrs.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 62
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.7pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>O.C. HANTS reports that enemy has occupied <span class="place">Estaminet</span> in <span class="place">ST YVES</span> and 2 of our trenches just south of it. He states that Maj Prowse has drawn round the enemy an inner ring of troops from his reserve. He asks for a gun to blow up the <span class="place">Estaminet</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.25pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>O.C. SOMERSETS reports having a prisoner from 134th SAXONS 19th Corps.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				SL 10
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
				<td>
				App 54 attached: (1) Summary of Information 29th Oct; (2) Sketch of French Dirigible
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Oct 31<sup>st</sup> &nbsp; <span class="place">CAFÉ ROYAL</span> <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>.  <br/>12.7am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Divn Cyclists report that INNES FUS have taken over trenches at <span class="place">X roads 500<sup>x</sup> N of <span class="place">CHATEAU</span></span>. The Div Cyclists now hold the line of road from INNES FUS left to <span class="place">Bridge over <span class="place">DOUVE R</span></span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1.15am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>O.C. SOMERSETS reports he is proceeding to take the two trenches of HANTS now occupied by Enemy. Also the <span class="place">ESTAMINET</span> &amp; houses. An account of this affair is attached to <a href="1914-10-Appendix55.xhtml">App 55</a>. It appears that after a heavy bombardment in which the trenches on the North of <span class="place">ST YVES</span> road and the two which are astride the road running east from the <span class="place">ESTAMINET</span> held by LIEUT TRIMMERS's platoon were all badly damaged, it was against the latter two trenches that the attack was pushed home and eventually penetrated our line. LIEUT TRIMMER and his men appear to have fought to the last and all were killed except one man who was badly wounded. The enemy, about 60 of them, advanced about 50 yards West of the road but were forced to retire, LIEUTS ATCHINSON and WADE (HANTS REGT) having constructed a barricade on the road at <span class="place">the North End of the cutting</span> and mounted a machine gun there. The Enemy did not attempt to establish themselves in the buildings.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				vide report
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				4am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>LANC FUS less 2 coys arrived at <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>2 coys INNES FUS moved to <span class="place">road junction north of S in <span class="place">BOIS-DE-PLOEGSTEERT</span></span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 4
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.15am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>O.C. SOMERSETS reports the situation cleared up. He puts 1 Coy S.L.I and a machine gun into the trenches to relieve the HANTS and 1 Coy in close support.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.14am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Divn Cyclists &amp; Div Cav are recalled to their billets.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.35am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>O.C. INNES FUS after consulting with O.C. WILDES RIFLES and the adjutant 5th D.G.S. sends in report. vide <a href="1914-10-Appendix55.xhtml">App 55</a>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.12am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report that enemy's infantry was last night heard moving in a southerly direction through <span class="place">FRELINGHEM</span>. They had a quiet night.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				RB 1
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.7am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS report Enemy forming for attack in front of their right centre company, and on their extreme left. Artillery on <span class="place">Pt 63</span> is asked to cooperate.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 9
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.20am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>1st Cav Brig from <span class="place">MESSINES</span> report they are being heavily attacked and would like support if possible. 2 Coys INNES FUS are sent North of <span class="place">DOUVE R</span> to join the Coy already there, to assist them.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				396 &amp; BM 13
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				Oct 31st (cont'd) <br/>10.15am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>1st Cav Div report they have been obliged to fall back slowly to a N &amp; S line through <span class="place">G of <span class="place">WULVERGHEM</span></span> owing to the gap made by the retirement of the 57th Rifles.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				I(g)80
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.56am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>E. LANCS report 50 germans killed &amp; about 100 wounded in the attack yesterday.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				E.L. 8
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1.6pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>4th Div states that K.O.S.B.s and K.O.Y.L.I should by now have arrived to assist 1st Cav Divn at <span class="place">MESSINES</span>. They were sent up in motor buses.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G 8
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				N.B.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The attack reported by HANTS at 7.7am to be developing does not appear to have come to anything.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<a href="1914-10-Appendix55.xhtml">App 55</a>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				1.20pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>M.G.C. sends report to 4th Div that INNIS FUS are making good progress <span class="place">South of <span class="place">MESSINES</span></span> and that the enemy are retiring.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				BM 19
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				2.27pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p><span class="place">MESSINES</span> reported recaptured and enemy holding ridge east of it.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Message from I.F. timed 2pm, BM 24-25-27
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				3.32pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS report heavy bombardment of trenches began at 2.45pm and is still continuing, some m.g. fire and rifle fire is also going in.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				5.5pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>INNIS FUS report enemy have been moving from east of <span class="place">MESSINES</span> to southward, they ask if RA can destroy a m. gun that is worrying them from a farm about 250 yds in front of their trenches. A sketch showing the position of their trenches is attached to this message.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS report that CAPT WATSON's Coy (SOMERSETS left centre trench) has suffered many casualties and ask for reinforcements as enemy will probably attack tonight.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.20pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>E. LANCS report H.Q.rs moved to <span class="place">a cottage near <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span> on the <span class="place">LE GHEER</span> - <span class="place">PLOEGSTEERT</span> road</span>, as they have been shelled out of <span class="place">their last house</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				E.L. 13
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				6.27pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Fighting still reported going on in <span class="place">MESSINES</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G.G. 7
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7.35pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>R.B. report their centre &amp; left have been shelled during the afternoon and that the germans are still digging S.E. of the railway.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				R.B. 11
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				7pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>&frac12; Coy E. LANCS is sent to reinforce right Coy HANTS.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 34-36
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				Oct 31st (cont'd) <br/>8.1pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>SOMERSETS say they would be glad of 50 LANC FUS. They state that CAPTS JONES-MORTIMER and SMITH were wounded by shell fire.</p>
				<p>Two platoons A Coy were sent to reinforce HANTS left by the river as they were reported hard pressed. They report several casualties, also that 75 dead germans were found on the Entanglements of HANTS trench which was rushed yesterday.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				8.52pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS ask for artillery fire to be directed on burnt farm 500 yds in front of his D Coy trench.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				9.40pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>1st Cav Div is asked whether the INNIS FUS North of <span class="place">DOUVE River</span> can now be relieved with safety.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 50
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.40pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>HANTS send in report re situation during the day attached to <a href="1914-10-Appendix55.xhtml">App 55</a>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				G 80
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				10.45pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>1st Cav Div report that it will not be possible to relieve INNIS FUS 3 Coys North of <span class="place">DOUVE</span> before tomorrow.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
				11.33pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Orders are sent to HANTS &amp; SOMERSETS to sort out their companies tonight. Two platoons HANTS are now available in reserve to fill gaps in HANTS front line. All trenches are to be improved in view of a probable attack tomorrow after the heavy Artillery bombardment.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				B.M. 53
				</td>
			</tr>
		</table>
	</body>
</html>