<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:mil="https://tigersmuseum.github.io/history/concepts/taxonomy.xhtml#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="report.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>11Bde - Report on actions of 1/E Lanc ,27,8th August 1914</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1486/1, pp 28-32"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade, August 1914, Report on Action of 1/E Lancs of 27/28 August, 1914"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>REPORT ON ACTION OF 1/EAST LANCASHIRE REGIMENT OF THE 27th/28th AUGUST, 1914</h1>

<hr/>

<article>
<p class="tnaref">TNA: WO 95/1486/1, pp 29-30</p>
<p class="centre">copy</p>
<h2>Fourth Div</h2>
<p>
In accordance with verbal instructions from G.O.C. 4th Div, I have the honour to bring to notice the action of the 1<sup>st</sup> Bn East Lancashire Rgt on the 27<sup>th</sup> - 28<sup>th</sup> Aug 1914.
</p>
<p>
This battalion with some detachments from other units of the 11<sup>th</sup> Infantry Brigade, in their endeavour to rejoin the Headquarters of the 4<sup>th</sup> Division, from which they had got separated after the battle of the 26<sup>th</sup>, marched (35) thirty five miles in 26 hours without food other than the little that was procurable from the villages en route, and yet marched into HAM and through HAM whistling and singing about 7 pm on 27<sup>th</sup>.
</p>
<p>
After getting some food (there was not much to be got) from supply wagons south of HAM, this battalion immediately marched back 2&frac14; miles (37&frac14; in all) and took up an outpost line covering HAM from the North.
This outpost line they held all night until relieved by the 3rd Division the next morning.
</p>
<p>
HAM was at that time the headquarters of the 2nd Army Corps.
</p>
<p>
This instance of endurance, cheeriness and fine military spirits is the more worthy of record when it is remembered that these men had been marching and fighting without intermission from the time they got out of the train at LE CATEAU at 4 pm on the 24<sup>th</sup>,
that they had held the FONTAINE-AU-PIRE position for 10 hours under heavy fire,
that they had been heavily shelled both at LIGNY and in their retirement from that place on 26<sup>th</sup>, 
and that further on the 27<sup>th</sup> at NAUROY they had again been shelled by the pursuing horse artillery.
</p>
<p>
The principal credit for this meritorious performance is due among the Officers to
</p>
<h4>Lt Col le MARCHANT</h4>
<p>
whose example of cheeriness &amp; self-possession, and whose handing of the men was beyond praise.
</p>
<h4>Lieut &amp; Adjt BELCHIER</h4>
<p>
who was indefategable in keeping the men together &amp; in making arrangements for such food and rest as was possible to find them.
</p>
<p>
Among the N.C.O<sup>s</sup> &amp; men the following are those most worthy of mention.
</p>
<h4>C.Sgt Maj Burgess, Sergt Pattinson</h4>
<p>
These N.C.O<sup>s</sup> were invaluable throughout in controlling and encouraging tired men.
Both showed gallantry and coolness when the column was shelled by pursuing Artillery and by their example did much to keep the men together
</p>
<p class="signed reference">
A Hunter-Weston<br/>
Brig Gen'l<br/>
Comdg 11<sup>th</sup> Inf Brig
</p>
<p>
Bucy<br/><time>2.10.14</time>
</p>

</article>

<hr/>

<article>
<p class="tnaref">TNA: WO 95/1486/1, p 31</p>
<p>
Record of march of the portion of the 11<sup>th</sup> Inf Brig under B.G.C. on 26<sup>th</sup>/27<sup>th</sup> Aug 1914.
</p>

<table>
<tr>
<td>Left LIGNY</td>
<td>5pm<br/>26.8.14</td>
<td rowspan="2">... 7&frac14; miles</td>
<td rowspan="4">..35 miles<br/>(in 26 hours)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Arr<sup>d</sup> SERAIN</td>
<td>8pm<br/>26.8.14</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Left SERAIN</td>
<td>2am<br/>27.8.14</td>
<td rowspan="2">... 27&frac34; miles</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Arr<sup>d</sup> HAM</td>
<td>7pm<br/>27.8.14</td>
</tr>
</table>

<p>
Note. The E. Lancs outpost companies marched an additional 2&frac14; miles, a total of 37&frac14; miles in about 28 hours.
</p>

<p class="signed reference">
D'Orsy Capt<br/>
1.10.14
</p>

</article>

<hr/>

<article>
<p class="tnaref">TNA: WO 95/1486/1, p 32</p>
<h3>Headquarters 11th Infantry Brigade</h3>
<p>
Herewith roll of Officers and N.C.Os present with the Battalion at Ham.
</p>

<p>
<br/>
Lt Col Le Marchant D.S.O
<br/>
Major Lambert
<br/>
Capt Coventry
<br/>
Capt Clayhills D.S.O
<br/>
Capt Goldie
<br/>
Lieut Hughes
<br/>
Lieut Hopkinson
<br/>
Lieut MacMullen
<br/>
Lieut <span class="doubtful">Delmege</span>
<br/>
2Lieut Tosswill
<br/>
2Lieut Wade
<br/>
Lieut Richards
<br/>
Lieut Belchier
<br/>
CSM Burgess
<br/>
Sgt <span class="doubtful">Neow</span>
<br/>
CS Wilkinson
<br/>
Sgt Pattinson
<br/>
Sgt Woodman
<br/>
Sgt Cuttle
<br/>
Sgt Hill
<br/>
Sgt Noden
<br/>
Sgt Barnes
<br/>
Sgt Corbett
<br/>
Sgt L'Anson
<br/>
Sgt Thompson
<br/>
Cpl Norton
<br/>
Cpl Coultrip
<br/>
Cpl Upjohn
<br/>
Cpl Halliwell
<br/>
Cpl Thistle
<br/>
Cpl Jaggers
<br/>
Cpl Knoght
</p>

<p>
I have no record of Officers &amp; N.C.Os. of other regiments who were with this party.
</p>

<p class="signed reference">
K Belchier Lt for Lt Col<br/>
Comdg 1/E. Lanchashire Regt.
</p>
<p>
Bucy<br/><time>30.9.14</time>
</p>
</article>

</body>
</html>

