<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:mil="https://tigersmuseum.github.io/history/concepts/taxonomy.xhtml#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="signal.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<link type="text/css" href="intsum.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>11Bde - Dec14 - App112</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1488/2/4, pp 244-272"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade, Devember 1914, Appendix 112"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>11th Infantry Brigade, War Diary, December 1914</h1>
<h2>Appendix 112</h2>
<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<p class="tnaref">TNA: WO 95/1488/2/4, p245</p>
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> <span typeof="mil:unit" content="4 Div">4th Div</span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> BM 20</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> 25th</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
From communications today between our men and the Germans in front of us it is quite clear that they are still part of Nineteenth Corps <span class="stop">aaa</span>
They are SAXONS coming from CHEMNITZ <span class="stop">aaa</span>
CAPT MAUD's body was brought in by them this evening
</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td typeof="mil:unit" content="11 Bde">11th Brig</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td> </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><time datetime="1914-12-25 17:00">5 pm</time></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>
<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<p class="tnaref">TNA: WO 95/1488/2/4, p246</p>
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span class="formfld">TO:</span> <span typeof="mil:unit">All units</span>.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="formfld">Sender's Number:</span> BM 4</td>
<td><span class="formfld">Day of Month:</span> 26th</td>
<td><span class="formfld">In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
If there should be any informal cessation of fire today or at any time as there was yesterday great care should be taken that the enemy is not allowed in sight of our trenches and entanglements as he would thereby gain most valuable information
</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td typeof="mil:unit" content="11 Bde">11th Brig</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td> </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><time datetime="1914-12-26 08:30">8.30 am</time></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>
<hr/>

<article>
<p class="tnaref">TNA: WO 95/1488/2/4, p247</p>
<p>
Report on proceedings to the front of the Hampshire Regt trench on Christmas day.
</p>
<p>
The night 24/25 was particularly free from sniping to our front. The enemy were singing christmas carols and their national songs.
About 10 am on Christmas morning I was making a sketch of the trench  under cover of fog, when I saw several of the enemy approaching from the trench north of our T piece.
I shouted out for them to halt not firing as the enemy was without arms.
This was complied with and I sent forward a patrol to state that they must approach no nearer and return to their trench or I should open fire.
The enemy then returned to their trench.
Soon after more of the enemy were seen approaching from their main trench to the East of our position. These men also were halted and a patrol sent forward. As the patrol seemed unable to induce the enemy to return to their trenches and more were seen approaching I went forward and asked to see an officer.
An under officer came forward, but I failed to make him understand me.
An interpreter however was soon produced and the enemy asked that there should be no shooting as it was Christmas day and that they should be allowed to bury their dead of which there were a considerable number a short way in front of their trench.
This request I granted as by this time considerable numbers were walking about outside their trenches.
A spot was indicated just by their foremost dead which I informed them if they passed I should be compelled to open fire and that after dusk I should open fire on anyone outside the trench.
The enemy agreed to these conditions and kept to them throughout the day. Towards evening what looked like a Staff Officer appeared and ordered all back to the trenches which order was immediately complied with.
To our right front a gathering of some two to three hundred men of both sides took place, the men exchanging gifts, handing overs enemy's dead from near our trenches, and even exchanging rifles.
Throughout the day I kept the garrison of my trench from contact with the enemy the men not being allowed out on the enemy's side. I gained the following information as regards the enemy and his trenches and dispositions.
</p>
<p>
The men were well clothed and seemed well supplied. Every man was wearing a pair of gum-boots. The regiments represented were 132, 133 &amp; 134 and some men with F.A. under a Crown, the great majority belonging to the 133rd regiment.
The men seemed in age to range between nineteen and forty-five.
They seemed very simple minded creatures, and were much elated over alleged victories in Russia.
They stated they wished the war would soon finish, but were confident of their success.
The strength to our immediate front I estimated to be about one man to every two yards except on right front, where they appeared to be much stronger there being at least on man per yard looking over the parapet even after a considerable number had left the trench.
</p>
<p>
The wire in front of enemy's trenches was mounted on wooden frames with cross pieces at either end three feet high. The men appeared to have no difficulty in stepping over these.
I could not see if there was trip wire in addition.
The trenches appeared to be in good condition, the men jumped in from the parapet without splashing about. The trenches are loopholed about eighteen inches off the ground (in the front trench) these were about ten feet apart.
Three lines of trenches were observed, the rear line being about six hundred yards from the front line, these were connected with communication trenches.
There appeared to be wire netting over the trenches coming above the parapet.
A fortified house about <span class="ellipsis">[figure missing: pencilled note, initialled FRH: "will get this"]</span> yards in rear of enemy's barricade on the north side of the Le Gheer road was observed.
I could see no maxim guns or emplacements.
</p>
<p>JDM Beckett, Capt</p>
<p>O.C. C Coy</p>
<p>Hampshire Regt</p>
<br/>
<p><span class="ellipsis">[pencilled note: "Forwarded FR Hicks, Mjr"]</span></p>
</article>


</body>
</html>

