<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
		<link type="text/css" href="diary.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
		<title>September 1914</title>
		<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
		<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1486/2/01, pp 3-12"/>
		<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade War Diary, September 1914"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>War Diary – 11 Inf Bde</h1>
		<p>September 1914</p>
		<table>
			<tr>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Hour, Date, Place</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Summary of Events and Information</p>
				</td>
				<td>
					<p class="table_heading">Remarks</p>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 1<sup>st</sup>&nbsp; ST. SAUVEURS. 6am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>On this day the march was resumed southward, the 11th Brigade being detailed as rearguard to the Division. Before moving off about 4.30 am the enemy attacked the E. Lancs. posts at <span class="place">the E end of <span class="place">ST SAUVEUR</span> village</span>, with machine gun &amp; shrapnel fire. The Somerset L.I. were ordered to take up a position about <span class="place">FAY Fm</span> and the Rifle Brigade on the high ground S of <span class="place">VAUCELLE</span> village to cover the retirement of the other two battalions.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					10am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The E. Lancs and Hants retired with a few casualties via the NERY valley. An attack on the Rifle Brigade &amp; Soomerset L.I. was repulsed with considerable loss to the enemy. The retirement was then continued in small columns across the open plateau, the right of the Brigade being directed on <span class="place">MT. CORNON</span>, the left on <span class="place">CHAMICY</span>. The Brigade billeted at <span class="place">ROZIÈRES</span> which had been evacuated by a force of Uhlans only an hour or two before. The water here was very bad.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				<a href="1914-09-Appendix6.xhtml">Appendix 6</a>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 2<sup>nd</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">ROZIÈRES</span>. 1.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The Brigade moved from <span class="place">ROZIÈRES</span> in the direction of <span class="place">NANTEUIL</span> to avoid the possibility of shell fire in the village.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					3am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>About 3am orders were received directing the march on <span class="place">DAMMARTIN</span>. The Brigade turned about &amp; marched via <span class="place">BARON</span> to <span class="place">EVE</span> where it billeted for the night. The 19th Brigade coming from <span class="place">FRESNOY</span> found the rear guard, but on arrival at <span class="place">EVE</span> they passed through, leaving the 11th Brigade as rearguard.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 7
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 3<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">EVE</span>. midnight
					<br/>12 noon
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>March resumed about midnight 2nd-3rd Sept via <span class="place">DAMMARTIN</span> - <span class="place">CLAYE</span> - <span class="place">LAGNY</span> - <span class="place">CH. FONTINELLE</span>. Arrived there about 12 noon. Very hot day, bivouac moved from <span class="place">N side of <span class="place">LAGNY</span></span> - <span class="place"><span class="place">VILLENEUVE-LE-CONTE</span> road</span> to <span class="place">the woods about <span class="place">CH. FONTINELLE</span></span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 8
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 4<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">CH. FONTINELLE</span>. 3pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Short march N.W. to <span class="place">COUPVRAY</span>. Outposts from <span class="place">MONTRY</span> to <span class="place">railway station NW of <span class="place">COUPVRAY</span></span> in touch with 5th Divn on the right. It was reported that the enemy had constructed a pontoon bridge across the river during the night, but in the morning it was found to be driftwood only.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 9
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 5<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">COUPVRAY</span>. 3.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The Brigade moved via <span class="place">JOSSIGNY</span> - <span class="place">FERRIÈRES</span> - <span class="place">OZOIR-LA-FERRIÈRE</span> to <span class="place">CH. MARSAUDIÉRE</span> and acted as rearguard to the division, finding outposts <span class="place">along the railway from <span class="place">OZOIR</span> to <span class="place">GRETZ</span></span>. First reinforcements joined the Brigade this day.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 10
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 6<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">CH. MARSAUDIÉRE</span>. 8.30am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The Brigade marched North to <span class="place">VILLENEUVE-LE-CONTE</span> via <span class="place">FERRIÈRES</span> and <span class="place">JOSSIGNY</span>. The Brigade was in reserve.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 7<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">VILLENEUVE-LE-CONTE</span>. 6am
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The Brigade moved about 6am via <span class="place">VOULANGIS</span> - <span class="place">CRECY-LA-CHAPELLE</span> to <span class="place">MAISONCELLES</span>. The 12th Brigade was in the advanced guard, the INNISKILLEN Fusiliers losing some men through a surprise machine gun &amp; shell fire NW of village. The Battalions of the Brigade were bicouaced all round the village each finding outposts.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 8<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">MAISONCELLES</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The Brigade having withdrawn their outposts moved off from the crossroads W of <span class="place">LA BARDE</span> (the starting point) as part of the Left Colm of the Division about 8 am, and marched via <span class="place">LA-HAUTE-MAISON</span> - halting here for an hour while the 19th Brigade moved forward as an advance guard, - <span class="place">PIERRE LEVEE</span> to <span class="place">SIGNY-SIGNETS</span>. At a point about &frac34; mile N of this village the 19th Brigade came under heavy &amp; accurate shell fire from the high ground about <span class="place">MORINTRU-LE-HAUT</span>. Our Artillery came into action as quickly as possible, but they were somewhat delayed by the 1st line transport of the 19th Brigade in front of them. The enemy's fire was soon silenced, and few casualties occurred on our side.</p>
				<p>The 11th Inf Brig moved eastwards through <span class="place">LES CORBIERS</span> to <span class="place">CH. VENTEUIL</span> and then billeted, outposts being found to the N and W as well as protection for the Artillery just S of <span class="place">CH. VENTEUIL</span>. The 12th Brigade prolonged the line to the E. Two battalions of the 19th Brigade remained in position on the high ground S of <span class="place">SAMMERON</span> facing N and connecting with out left. Both bridges at <span class="place">LA FERTÉ</span> were demolished by the enemy.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 9<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">CH. VENTEUIL</span>. 6am.
					<br/><br/>
					Sept 9<sup>th</sup> (Contd)&nbsp; <span class="place">LA FERTÉ</span>
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>After a careful officers' reconnaissance, the Brigade was moved by a steep track leading N.E. over <span class="place">the PETIT MORIN river</span> at <span class="place">ST MARTIN</span>. The Rifle Brigade &amp; Somerset LI were sent to occupy the high ground S of <span class="place">TARTEREL</span>. The E. Lancs occupied <span class="place">LA FERTÉ</span> village S of <span class="place">the MARNE River</span> watching the two broken bridges.</p>
				<p>The enemy was occupying the houses along the N bank of the river with snipers and machine guns making any movement in the open on our side impossible. The Hants were kept in reserve at <span class="place">CH. VENTEUIL</span>. Our artillery heavily bombarded the enemy in and about <span class="place">LA FERTE</span> and our machine guns and snipers inflicted considerable loss on the enemy, their casualties were estimated by inhabitants at about 700, whereas our loss cannot have exceeded 30.</p>
				<p>In the evening and during the night the 12th Brigade and the Rifle Brigade crossed <span class="place">the MARNE river</span> by <span class="place">the railway bridge N.E. of <span class="place">CHAMPIGNY</span></span>. Two Coys E. Lancs and one Coy Hants, afterwards followed by the remainder of both battalions, ferried across the river in rowing boats close to the eastern bridge at <span class="place">LA FERTÉ</span>. During the night a pontoon and barrel bridge was thrown across the river at this point.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 12
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 10<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">LA FERTÉ</span>. 9.30am.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>At 9.30am H.Q. and the Somerset L.I. passed over the bridge leaving one company as rearguard. This Coy waited till the RE had demolished the bridge and rejoined the Brigade next day. The Brigade assembled in column of route on <span class="place">the main <span class="place">LA FERTÉ</span> - <span class="place">CHATEAU-THIERRY</span> road about a mile N of <span class="place">LA FERTÉ</span></span>. Some delay was caused while the Rifle Brigade rejoined from the NE after having crossed the river with the 12th Brigade as mentioned above.</p>
				<p>About 2.30pm the Brigade moved on via <span class="place">PORTE-FERÉE</span> - <span class="place">COCKEREL</span> to billets at <span class="place">CHATON</span> and <span class="place">RADEMONT</span> where the night was spent. The 11th Brigade was the rear Brigade of the Division. H.Qrs 11th Inf Brig were at <span class="place">RADEMONT</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 12
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 11<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">RADEMONT</span>. 4am.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The Brigade advanced at 4am, the two battalions at <span class="place">RADEMONT</span> namely E. Lancs and Rifle Brigade marching via <span class="place">OCQUERRE</span> - <span class="place">COULOMBS</span> road on the <span class="place">W bank of <span class="place">the OURCQ river</span></span>, while the Somerset L.I. and Hants marched direct from <span class="place">CHATON</span> to <span class="place">VENDREST</span> joining the remainder of the Brigade on the main road NW of <span class="place">VENDREST</span>; the march was then continued via <span class="place">COULOMBS</span> - <span class="place">HERVILLIERS</span> - <span class="place">St. QUENTIN</span>, to which place the Brigade was conducted along a track across country by an officer of the Divisional staff. The track leading N.W. from <span class="place">CERFROID Fme</span> and saving a march of about 2 miles. The transport had to go round by the main road  through <span class="place">MONTIGNY L'ALLIER</span> and <span class="place">FULAMES</span>. A halt of about 2 hours was made at <span class="place">ST. QUENTIN</span> till 2.30 pm, during which time the 12th and 19th Brigades, which had gone round by the main road, passed through us.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 13
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					2.30pm.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The march was resumed in pouring rain to <span class="place">PASSY-EN-VALOIS</span> which was reached about 5 pm, and here the Brigade billeted for the night. The Rifle Brigade had been left to billet at <span class="place">a farm about 2 miles SW of <span class="place">PASSY</span></span>. The 11th Brigade was again in rear of the 4th Division.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 12<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">PASSY-EN-VALOIS</span>. 8am.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The Brigade resumed the advance at 8am, in showery weather and along bad roads via <span class="place">MARIZY-ST-GENEVIÈVE</span> - <span class="place">MARIZY-ST-MARD</span> - <span class="place">CHOUY</span> - ,where it passed through the 19th Inf Brigade, - <span class="place">VILLERS-LE-PETIT</span> - <span class="place">LOUATRE</span> - <span class="place">VILLERS-HÉLON</span> - <span class="place">MONTRAMBOEUF Fm</span> - where a halt of half an hour was made; instructions were here received from the 4th Division to draw up the Brigaded in mass behind the ridge about <span class="place"><span class="place">Pt 132</span> &frac12; mil S.W. of <span class="place">RAPERIE</span></span> to be in reserve with the 12th Brigade in the same formation immediately E. of it, but after a short haly the Brigaded was ordered on via <span class="place">VILLEMONTOIRE</span> - <span class="place">ROZIERES</span> - <span class="place" content="ECUIRY">ECATRY</span> - <span class="place">SEPTMONTS</span> which was reached at dusk in pouring rain about 6.30 pm.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					6.30pm.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Here troops were billteed in a very confined space, soaked through and having had no issue of food for the day, till 10pm when a further advance was made to <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span> and <span class="place">the heights N of it</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 15
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 13<sup>th</sup>-20<sup>th</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Vide Appendix 15.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 15
				<br/>
				Appendix 16 a.b.c.d.e.f.g.h
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 21<sup>st</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>No change in the situation. E.Lancs were withdrawn from the trenches and the Rifle Brigade moved from reserve to take their place. The E. Lancs machine guns were left in position at <span class="place">the top of the ravine either side of the <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span> - <span class="place">VREGNY</span> road</span>.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 17
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 22<sup>nd</sup> 1914.&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>The situation still remains the same. The Rifle Brigade lost one man killed through a post being rushed. The Somerset L.I. killed a German artillery officer in the early morning by sniping. The makes the eleventh man they have killed this way since we have been here.</p>
				<p>Listening patrols report, as on the previous two or three nights that during the evening between 7 and 9 pm a great movement of transport was taking place along <span class="place">the <span class="place">MAUBERGE</span> road</span>. - About 360 reinforcements arrived last night, - 3rd reinforcements.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 18
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 23<sup>rd</sup>&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Soon after midnight it was reported from 4th Division that the French 6th Army was to make an attack on our left at dawn, the 11th Inf Brigade to assist this attack as far as possible but not to make any offensive movement themselves.</p>
				<p>The Somerset L.I. sent 2 platoons forward to a ridge about 200 yds in front of their trenches to assist with fire, but no attack took place, it was afterwards stated owing to the mist.</p>
				<p>A slight advance was stated to have been made by the French about 11am, but there was little firing, and apparantly little ground was gained.</p>
				<p>The enemy was reported at 7.10 pm to have been digging a trench 800 yds in front of the Dublin Fusiliers left and to the right front of the Rifle Brigade. Orders were issued for a careful reconnaissance to be made during the night.</p>
				<p>There was no real change in the situation.</p>
				<p>566 Reinforcements arrived for the Brigade in the Evening - 4th reinforcements. A party of about 120 stragglers arrived in the early morning.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 19
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 24<sup>th</sup> 1914.&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>No change in the situation, a very quiet day. The reconnaissance made during the night proved it was not a new trench which the enemy had yesterday been reported to be digging, but an improvement and extension of an old one. Notification was received about 6pm that the French 6th Army would renew the attack at dawn tomorrow, the 11th Brigade to be ready to support such attack.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 20
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Note.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>From the 10th September till September 22nd there was almost incessant rain, with rare intervals during which it was impossible for the men to dry their clothes properly. Despite this bad weather, the health of the troops has been remarkably good, only 10 men being admitted to hospital sick during the last week at <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>. A party of 51 stragglers arrived in the evening.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 25<sup>th</sup> 1914.&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Another quiet day without change. The French attack which was to have taken place at dawn was again postponed, official notification of this was not received till 8am. The only firing which took place today was at aeroplanes; this fire was entirely without effect.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 21
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 26<sup>th</sup> 1914.&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>No change in the situation.</p>
				<p>Trenches, more especially the machine gun pits were still further improved.</p>
				<p>The G.O.C. 4th Division inspected the whole line of trenches from 5.30 am to 8 am.</p>
				<p>The The Rifle Brigade shot one man of a german patrol at dawn.</p>
				<p>The weather reamined fine.</p>
				<p>Notifcation oa a further french attack on <span class="place">LA PERRIÈRE Fm</span> to be carried out tomorrow was received in the evening. A staff officer was sent to the H.Qrs of the french 90th Brig to find out exact time of attack, with a view to our cooperating as far as possible. This officer remained at <span class="place">ST. PAUL</span> all night, as the hour of the attack was not then fixed.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 22
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 27<sup>th</sup> 1914.&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Situation unchanged.</p>
				<p>The Zonares on our immediate left advanced their trenches 50 to 150 yards but these trenches were untenable during the day owing to the enemys heavy  shell fire, one or two men only were therefore kept in them.</p>
				<p>There was a good deal of sniping on both sides but no casualties. Trenches were still further improved. Summary of information up to Sept 26th and War Diary of a German Adjutant is attached to Appendix 23.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 23
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 28<sup>th</sup> 1914.&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>Situation still unchanged.</p>
				<p>The G.O.C. 4th Division visited the Rifle Brigade and Hampshire Regt trenches at 6.30 am. The B.G.C. ordered new trenches to be dug connecting Capt Jones-MORTIMER's advanced post with the Somerset L.I. H.Qr. cave also a trench firing up the shallow valley running N.E. from the above situationed post and in front of this post. Arrangements were made for the E. Lancs (in reserve) to carry out this work at dusk and during the night.</p>
				<p>Lt Col Lawrence arrived to take over command of the E. Lancs. There was very little artillery during this day. The french advanced trenches on our left were shelled rather heavily. Sketch showing german trenches and summary of information is attached to App 24.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 24
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 29<sup>th</sup> 1914.&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>No change in the situation.</p>
				<p>Further reinforcements arrived in the evening for the Rifle Brigade of 1 officer an 93 other ranks. 5th reinforcements.</p>
				<p>About 8 pm a Somersets patrol reported enemy deploying from 3 columns, and it was supposed an attack was intended but nothing happened.</p>
				<p>Capt YATEMAN's communicating trench to his forward observation post was completed and Capt JONES-MORTIMER completed the fire trenches in front of his forward post. The new forward trench between the Somerset L.I. H.Q. cave and Capt JONES MORTIMER's post was commenced during the night 28th-29th Sept, 50 yards still remain to be dug (vide App 25)</p>
				<p>A copy of Summary of Information up to 29th Sept 1914 and of Extracts from Diaries etc are attached to App 25. An account of the retirement of the E. Lancs Regt from LIGNY to HAM on Aug 26-27th is attached to App 25.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 25
				</td>
			</tr>
			<tr>
				<td>
					Sept 30<sup>th</sup> 1914.&nbsp; <span class="place">BUCY-LE-LONG</span>.
					<br/>2.45pm
				</td>
				<td>
				<p>No change in situation.</p>
				<p>At 2.45pm notification was received of an intended trench attack on <span class="place">LA PERRIERE Fe</span> at 3pm with the usual orders for the 11th Brigade to assist as far as possible. This attack never developed into a very serious affair, and little or no progress was made. Our artillery assisted by firing on the batteries at <span class="place">LA PERRIERE Fe</span> and Point 132. Vide reports attached to App 26. Record of daily casualty returns upto and including Sept 30th is attached to App 26.</p>
				<p>Maj DE LA CHAPPELE, Rifle Brigade was appointed Brigade Transport Officer.</p>
				<p>Note. An amended account of the action of 11th Inf Brig on night of 12th-13th Sept is attached to App 26.</p>
				</td>
				<td>
				Appendix 26
				</td>
			</tr>
		</table>
	</body>
</html>