<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" 
	xmlns:mil="https://tigersmuseum.github.io/history/concepts/taxonomy.xhtml#"
	xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
	xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#"
	>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link type="text/css" href="signal.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<link type="text/css" href="intsum.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<title>11Bde - Aug 14 - App4</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/1486/1, pp 62-66"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="11th Infantry Brigade, August 1914, Appendix 4"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>11th Infantry Brigade, War Diary, August 1914</h1>
<h2>Appendix 4</h2>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span>TO:</span> HANTS - E. LANC - RIF BRIG - S.L.I.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Sender's Number:</span> B.M. 4</td>
<td><span>Day of Month:</span> Thirtieth</td>
<td><span>In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
The march will be resumed at once to the original destination via <span class="place">Trosly Bruille</span> <span class="stop">AAA</span>. Battalions will join the line of march as they find it most convenient <span class="stop">AAA</span> As long as each battalion marches smartly and as a complete unit. The G.O.C. Division will take the salute at a point on the road near <span class="place">MORENVAL Fm</span>. <span class="stop">AAA</span>
</p>

<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td>ELEVENTH INF BRIG</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td><span class="place">TRACY-le-MONT</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td>2.13 pm</td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span>TO:</span> Gen'l Haldane Comdg Rear Guard
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Sender's Number:</span> B.M. 3</td>
<td><span>Day of Month:</span> 30th</td>
<td><span>In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
Ref my B.M.2, I find that the road the division has taken leaves <span class="place">TRACY-le-VAL</span> well on the left, and goes direct from <span class="place">BEAILLY</span> via <span class="place">OLLENCOURT</span> to <span class="place">TRACY-le-MONT</span>. <span class="stop">AAA</span>
</p>

<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td>ELEVENTH INF BRIG</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td>&frac12; mile S.E. of <span class="place">BAILLY</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td><datetime content="1914-08-30 08:30">8.30 am</datetime></td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article>
<h3>operation Order No 1</h3>
<h3>Maj. Gen. T D'O Snow CB Comdg 4<sup>th</sup> Div</h3>
<h3>30.8.14</h3>
<p>
1.&nbsp; The news of the situation tonight is most satisfactory. The enemy's advance has been checked, both against our right &amp; our left. The situation however requires a short strategical retirement on the part of the 4th Div, but the G.O.C. 4th Div knows that the troops in the Div will willingly respond to yet another exceptional call on their morale.
</p>
<p>
2.&nbsp; The Div will march in one column. March table is attached. This march table has been issued to some units as a warning order.
</p>
<p>
3.&nbsp; The Div will move tommorrow to the line of the <span class="place">River AISNE</span>.
</p>
<p>
4.&nbsp; There will be a long halt probably of 2 or 3 hours at 8 am during which troops will be feed &amp; horses watered.
</p>
<p>
5.&nbsp; The withdrawal of the outposts will be arranged so that <span class="place">PONT L'EVEQUE</span> is clear by 6 am.
</p>
<p>
6.&nbsp; The bridge mentioned in above para will be blown up by R.E. by order of rearguard commander 4th Div.
</p>
<p>
7.&nbsp; Refilling point &amp; supply rendezvous have been specially arranged for.
</p>
<p>
8.&nbsp; The no. 15 &amp; 2 Fd Amb'ces  having rejoined the Div, the A.D.M.S. will detail one to march after the 11th Inf Brig &amp; the other with the rearguard which is will meet at the cross roads &frac14; mile east at 6 am.
</p>
<p>
9.&nbsp; Div. H.Q. in <span class="place"><span class="place">CARLEPONT</span> MAIRIE</span> will be closed at 5 am &amp; repoen at the same time at the head of the 11th Inf Brig.
</p>
<p>[Signed]</p>
<p>Issued at 2.15 am</p>
</article>

<article>
<h3>4th Division</h3>
<h3>March Table attached to Op Order No 1 of 30.8.14</h3>
<table>
<tr>
<th>Unit</th>
<th>Starting Place</th>
<th>Time</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Supply Section</td>
<td>cross roads &frac14; mile east of T in <span class="place">CARLEPONT</span></td>
<td>3.15 am</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Train (less Supply Section)</td>
<td></td>
<td>3.31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9th Fd Co. RE.</td>
<td></td>
<td>3.40</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>37 F.A.B.</td>
<td></td>
<td>3.44</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14 F.A.B.</td>
<td></td>
<td>4.10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12th Inf Brig</td>
<td></td>
<td>4.24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>32 F.A.B.</td>
<td></td>
<td>4.44</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Div Hd Qrs &amp; No 1 Sctn Sig Co.</td>
<td></td>
<td>5.8</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11th Inf Brig</td>
<td></td>
<td>5.10</td>
</tr>
</table>

<h3>Rear Guard</h3>
<p>Commander - Brig Gen Haldane</p>
<ul>
<li>10th Inf Brig</li>
<li>120th FAB</li>
<li>Cyclist Co.</li>
<li>7th Fd Co. R.E. will join at N in SEMPIGNY.</li>
</ul>
<p>To be South of the line PONTOISE BRIDGE - SEMPIGNY by 6 am.</p>

<h3>Route</h3>
<p>Road junction &frac14; mile east of T in CARLEPONT - I of <span class="place">CHAMP DU MERLIER</span> - <span class="place">TRACYLEMONT</span> to <span class="place">TROSLY BREUIL</span>.</p>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span>TO:</span> HANTS - E.LAN - RIF BRIG - SOMERSETS - 14 Bde R.F.A.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Sender's Number:</span> BM 2</td>
<td><span>Day of Month:</span> Thirtieth</td>
<td><span>In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
The 11th Inf Brig will form up on the <span class="place">CARLEPONT</span> - <span class="place">LESCLOYES</span> road in the lfoowing order: - HANTS - R.B. - S.L.I. - E.LAN - <span class="stop">AAA</span> The head of the column opposite E.LAN bivouac at 4.40 am <span class="stop">AAA</span> The detachements now under Col BIDDULPH will form up on the side of road opposite their bivouacs in time to join their units as they pass. <span class="stop">AAA</span>
</p>
<p>
ROUTE. Road jcn &frac14; mile E of "T" in <span class="place">CARLEPONT</span> - "I" of <span class="place">CHAMP-du-MERLIER</span> - <span class="place">TRACYLEMONT</span> to <span class="place">TROSLY BREUIL</span> - <span class="stop">AAA</span>
</p>
<p>
The 14th Bde R.F.A will march at such hour that the head of their column reaches the road jcn &frac14; mile E of "T" in <span class="place">CARLEPONT</span> and will follow the 37th Bde R.F.A.
</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td>ELEVENTH INF BRIG</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td>S house but one in village of <span class="place">LESCLOYES</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td>3.45 am</td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>

<article typeof="mil:message">
<table class="header">
<tr>
<td colspan="3">
<span>TO:</span> Eleventh Brigade
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Sender's Number:</span> AA 150</td>
<td><span>Day of Month:</span> Seventh</td>
<td><span>In reply to Number:</span> </td>
</tr>
</table>
<br/>
<p>
GOC wishes you to forward at your earliest convenience a short account of the action of troops under your command at the battle of <span class="place">LIGNY</span> - <span class="place">HAUCOURT</span> - <span class="place">SEVIGNY</span> on 26th August together with a list of officers, warrant officers, NCO's and men who you want to bring to notice for their good service <span class="stop">AAA</span> The list should not exceed 15 names and should be arranged in the order of merit which you consider their actions justify <span class="stop">AAA</span> In each case a short account of the reason for your recommendation should accompany each individuals name.
</p>
<br/>
<table class="footer">
<tr>
<td><span>From</span></td><td>Fourth Division</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Place</span></td><td><span class="place">VILLENEUVE LE COMPTE</span></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span>Time</span></td><td>9.35 am</td>
</tr>
</table>
</article>

<hr/>
</body>
</html>

