<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>140 FA</title>
<link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"/>
<meta name="DC.title" content="140 Field Ambulance"/>
<meta name="DC.source" content="The National Archives of the UK (TNA): WO 95/2630/2"/>
<meta name="DC.identifier" content="140 FA War Diary 1917-09"/>
<style type="text/css">
	.FAloc td {
		border: 1px solid;
		vertical-align: top;
	}
	.distoff td {
		text-align: center;
	}
	td &gt; p, th &gt; p {
	padding: 0px 10px;
	margin: 0px;
	}
	.P2, .P4 {
		text-align: right;
	}
	.Table_20_Heading {
		font-weight: bold;
	}
	.T2 {
		text-decoration-line: underline;
	}
	.PERSON {
		background: lightsteelblue;
	}
	.PLACE {
		background: lightgreen;
	}
	.UNIT {
		background: lightgrey;
	}
	.MAPREF {
		background: pink;
	}
	</style></head><body><p class="P1"/><table class="Table20"><tr><td class="col1"><p class="Table_20_Heading">Place</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="Table_20_Heading">Date</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="Table_20_Heading">Hour</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="Table_20_Heading">Summary of Events and Information</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="Table_20_Heading">Remarks</p></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">La WATTINE</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 1</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">In same Billets.  ADMS Conference of C.O.s at WIZERNE, discussed certain administrative and other points. </p><p class="P8"> Capt. DAVIDSON returned from leave.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 2</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Weather rather finer so moved some tents up to the common and put all conval. patients in. Interviewed all the PB men, not very hopeful regarding HT duties. The divisional Cross Country run held near La FOSSE farm. Amalgamated Amb. entered a team, the first place in run was won by RAMC man (139 Field Amb), over 300 competitors.  Our team finished 5<sup>th</sup>.</p><p class="P8">Number of aeroplanes - hostile – over night. 5 PB men from Regts to ADMS board.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 3</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Sent men for PB to St OMER.  RTO wired me directed from Div (G) to bring them back and did so, reporting to ADMS.  Capt. Davidson gave evidence in F.G. Court Martial.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 5</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">9 pm</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Germans taken Riga. Orders from ADMS 9 pm to send Captain Davies, 2 NCOs and 30 men (by bus) to area of Ridge Wood as working party on the 7<sup>th</sup>.  Also to send on the 6<sup>th</sup>, 1 Lumber, 1 G.S. Wagon and 1 Water Cart to Wallon Cappel for Ridge Wood area.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 6</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">The three wagons left for Wallon Cappel. I go up tomorrow with CRE and DADMS to see ADS etc. in the line.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 7</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">5.30 am</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Left WIZERNES with DADMS 5.30 am to La CLYTTE, on with CRE to near Larch Wood, our new ADS.  Made suggestions, re duckboard track from Larch Wood to VEREBRANDON Rd, etc, then on to CANADA St., an Advanced Collection Post, which at present is being modified.  Then to HEDGE St which has still to be dug out. DADMS and CRE went on to R.A.P.s (This ambulance is to run the ADS). Returned to Larch Wood and thence via track to Larch Wood (ADS) and VOORMAZELE.  Got a good idea of working of trolleys (line being constructed) and tracks for evacuation of wounded. Captain Davidson on board at WESTOUTRE re burning of some tents. Captain DOYLE arrived for duty with the Ambulance.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 8</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">ADMS conference. Heard Op orders re coming offensive.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 11</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">ADMS conference. Went over orders for the offensive. Regt. and other MO's present.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 13</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Went in advance to Westoutre to see about horse lines at Voormazele etc. and to go over some of the ground. Called at La CLYTTE and saw OC 140 Field Ambulance also the CRE regarding the work at Hedge St. </p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">WALLON CAPPELLE</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 14</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Ambulance marched from WATTINE to WALLON CAPPELLE area and billets for the night. I went up with Capt. ROWLAND to Voormazele, saw OC of 134 F.A. at present there and got full particulars regarding material to be taken over at different posts, personnel etc. Onto LOCK 8 which will form our ADS. Saw accommodation etc, then down to VEERSTRAAT for the horse lines.  Voormazele rather impossible for horses standings as they shell and bomb. Telephone connects LOCK 8, LARCH WOOD (collection post) and ADMS.  Would have preferred it at Voormazeele.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">FLETRE</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 15  </p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Ambulance marched WALLON CAPPELLE to FLETRE.  I called at ADMS near RENINGHELST and then went down to see Ambulance.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">VEERSTRAAT</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 16</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Ambulance marched 2.30 to horse lines at VEERSTRAAT, broke journey 1 hours rest at Westoutre.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 17</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Called for Capts DAVIDSON, BUTLER and DOYLE and personnel of 44.  Took over “Lock 8” as Adv. D.S. Left Capt BUTLER in charge with 14 men, on to LARCH WOOD (Collection Post) Capt. DAVIDSON and 15 men to take over. Capt. DOYLE and 14 men to CANADA St. Adv. C.P. to take over. HEDGE St not yet complete, myself and Lt. Harvey at Voormazele, issued instructions to hold and gradually take over. To ADMS for conference at 3 pm. For final instructions. Went on to Voormazele in the evening. </p><p class="P8">Up all night, considerable and steady stream of wounded, chiefly 39<sup>th</sup> Division and R.F.A. Stopped lorries to evacuate walking wounded, our horses very tired. Making final arrangements for distribution of equipment etc. to the different posts.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">VOORMOZEELE</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 18</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Myself and Lt. Harvey on duty ½ night each, as neither B section nor working party (30) had joined us, am distinctly short-handed. Steady flow of wounded during the night. ADMS called and went round the line, told him my general actions, and that I proposed staying at Voormazele as my services were more urgent there. ADMS sent up 300 stretchers, drew 150 more from the D.R.S. at BOESCHEPE and 400 blankets from O.C. 139  F.A. The greatest part of the equipment for the R.A.P.s and other posts along with the rations for personnel packed and sent up by Trollies - mule drawn – to the different posts. B section from WESTOUTRE and the working party from Ridge wood joined up later in the day, so sent up reinforcements to the different posts with some more equipment. Approximately 153 wounded dressed and many sick seen.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 19</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Steady flow of sick and wounded, majority not of our Division, place congested at times but was able to deal with evacuations by our Ambulance and Horse Transport and Lorries.</p><p class="P8">Personnel and transport arrived from 138. Personnel of 138 (bearers), some further equipment and dressings sent up under Capt. LUMLEY to CANADA St Adv. C. P.  The equip of RAPs and PRs now complete as laid down  ADMS orders. Capt LAUDER and two other officers from the 138 FA arrived and proceeded to LARCH WOOD.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">6.30 pm</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Capt. CROSSE and personnel from 139 FA (also transport) arrived. Sent them on to their respective posts under Capt. CROSSE also the rations for the different posts. Capt Rowland reports everything satisfactory at Lock 8.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">8 pm</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">All personnel and transport now in place. Steady flow of sick and wounded all day, approximate numbers of latter being about 185.  There has never been any blocking, all wounded got away by Horse and Motor transport. Field Med. Cards issued to nearly all. Three lorries reported about 6 pm . One was sent to Lock 8, and 2 about midnight were ordered to the stand near “Jackson's Dump” on the Verbranden Molen road, the one driver knew his way. Prior to the officers proceeding to their posts I interviewed them and submitted what I proposed giving them in personnel and equipment, satisfaction was expressed. The method of working the Motor Ambulance was discussed with Capt. Lauder i/c Larch Wood and settled.  He asked for 6 motor ambulances to be at Jackson's Dump at 20 minutes after Zero. The general distribution is as follows. <span class="T2">HEDGE St</span> - Capt. Lumley, 8 Tent Subsection, 6 Trollies, and working forward under Capt. CHESNEY the 3 Bearer Subdiv. i/c 138 F. Amb. <span class="T2">CANADA St.</span><span class="T6"> -</span> Capt DOYLE, 8 Tent Subdiv, 6 Trollies, and working forward under Capt DAVIDSON 3 Bearer Sub div. i/c this Ambulance (including about 10 from 139 Field Ambulance to make up numbers).  <span class="T2">LARCH Wood.</span> - Capts Lauder DSO, Todd and 1 other (USAMC). 18 Tent Subdiv, 12 Trollies, 30 Stretcher Bearers. <span class="T2">LOCK 8</span> - Capts Rowland, Butler, and Davies, 8 Tent Subdiv, 20 Stretcher Bearers, 4 Trollies. <span class="T2">VOORMAZELE</span> - Myself, Capt. Crosse, Lts Harrison and Harvey. 11 Tent Subdiv, 16 Stretcher Bearers and 10 men in reserve (which were afterwards distributed).  With sick, on leave and 1 on a course this Amb. is 10 men short in Tent subdiv.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">VOORMOZEELE</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">Midnight</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Orders issued for lorries to take their position, and 6 Motor Ambulances to report to Capt Lauder at Jackson's Dump for Larch Wood evac before 6 am.</p><p class="P8">Captain Crosse had not returned by midnight.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 20</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">1 – 6 am</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">About 3 am Captain Crosse returned having got all his men to their destination. Heavy rain.</p><p class="P8">Steady flow of wounded, and some v. bad cases (all Divisions, 39<sup>th</sup>, 23<sup>rd</sup>, and 41<sup>st</sup>), also some gas. One bad case of brachial haemorrhage, Chlorof. and op. Up all night again.</p><p class="P8">First rush of wounded about 7 am. Different Divisions stretcher and walking cases, the congestion was great till about 11 am, threatened to overcome one at times, all rooms and passage full to overflow and many waiting outside, from about 9am was forced to send on all 39 Div. walking cases to the Brasserie owing to the congestion, but at no time were we actually blocked, and the evacuation by Horse transport, Lorries and Motor Amb. worked smoothly. I was at this time unable owing to number of cases to issue Field Med. Cards to all. I was also forced for same reason to send some on to La Clytte without taking names. Many cases coming from Lock 8 – walking etc – who had been dressed and did not require redressing came in and added to the congestion, this was remedied.</p><p class="P8">Capt LAUDER called (in a car) early morning and stated he was not able to find any of the Motor Amb. At Jackson's Dump, Assured him that they had been sent up according to arrangements (6 M.A. By 20 min after Zero), also noted after inquiry that some of the cars had returned with wounded, only they were chiefly 39<sup>th</sup> Division, it was evident that a dressing station of this Division had used our cars freely, and unknown to Captain LAUDER owing to telephonic break down. Captain Lauder was not able to get into communication with me (per Lock 8).  Agreed to send up more cars, according to his wishes, and that if he so desired it he could have the use of every Motor Am. He reported that cases were coming in freely from the Adv. C.P.s and that there was a blockage at Larch Wood – the trollies were practically useless from Larch Wood, and that he had been unable to use the Corps Railway.  </p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 20</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">(cont)</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">The DDMS called and went round the dressing station. DADMS called and told me of the block at Larch Wood. Assured him that Mot. Amb. had been sent to 'Jackson's Dump' as arranged with Capt Lauder and that other cars had already been sent up. Evacuation at LOCK 8 and VOORMOZEELE going smoothly.</p><p class="P8">DADMS called on his way back from Larch Wood and told me of the block there. Again assured him that cars were sent at appointed hour and that certainly some had been used by the 39<sup>th</sup> Div. but also that others were now bringing in our own wounded from Jackson's Dump, also informed him that arrangements had been made for a time service of cars and that Horse Amb. were being sent up to aid in the evacuation. <span class="T7">To the pre</span>sent time Amb. cars had been emptied at Voormazele and returned direct to Larch Wood (except abdominal, chest and cases not requiring fresh dressing in which case the car was sent straight on to Chippawa and another empty car sent to Larch Wood, in this way maintaining the full supply), on the written order of the DADMS as representing the ADMS, I was instructed to send all cars with all cases straight on to Chippawa, further that no cars would call at Voormazele either going or coming. I pointed out that this would not accelerate the car service in my opinion, as owing to congestion of traffic and the lengthened journey the cars would run serious chance of being further blocked between Voormazele and Chippawa in addition to the blockage they were meeting between Larch Wood and Voormazele.  I accepted the order.  I was willing at all times of the offensive to have Voormazele blocked rather than Larch Wood as the latter was more important. I aimed at this all the time.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">VOORMOZEELE</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 20</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">3 pm</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">By 3 pm Voormazele was practically empty. All cases had been evacuated, and from this time onwards, as the cases were collected they were got away easily and quickly. The conditions at Lock 8 were the same, only a small number of cases coming through, the majority of the walking wounded now seemed to miss Lock 8 and come straight on to Voormazele. About 3.30 pm phoned up to Larch Wood and received that report that the evacuations were well in hand, only about 30 cases remaining and that the service of cats was satisfactory, car service arranged as asked for by Capt. Lauder.</p><p class="P8">Steady stream of cases arriving but no undue pressure. This continued  until the end of the day. Approx number of cases at Voormazele = 680, treated and dressed, this does not include sick treated on the spot, nor some wounded sent on whose names were not recorded.</p><p class="P8">5 MA cars arrived 10 pm and sent to Larch Wood.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 21</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Orders from ADMS to change my HQ to Lock 8, did so, and went round all the line seeing the officers in charge, everything reported satisfactory at all the stations (Hedge St, Canada St, Larch Wood), some requests for more dressings shortly, also stretchers, remedied, also Thomas splint remedied.</p><p class="P8">Capt. LAUDER reports M.A. cars not required arranged to return them. The Corps Light railway now being used for evacuation. 100 S. Bearers (Infantry) sent up by ADMS to assist in evacuation of forward areas.  </p><p class="P8">Captain CHESNEY i/c forward bearers Hedge St has been  wounded. Capt Corkhill from 139 will relieve.  My HQ now Lock 8.  Wounded treated 83.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">LOCK 8</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 22</p><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Phone going all night with Lock 8 and Larch Wood, reference various changes required in number of cars, dressings etc.  All stations keeping the evacuations well in hand and no blocking. Few wounded here.  In afternoon orders received per phone from ADMS that the Division will be relieved night 22/23<sup> </sup>and certain instructions received. Issued Warning Order to Capt. Lauder ref. the relief and asked him to communicate them to all concerned as he would be more easily able to do so. C.O. of 138 F.A. called and arranged with him the hours of relief and rendez-vous for 138 F.A. transport.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">8.30 pm</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Op. Orders from ADMS (no. 31) received, and issued mine in accordance with them, with exception of relief of officers i/c Forward Bearers, orders for these cannot be issued till I get in touch with O.C. relieving Amb. 134. – Shortly 138 F.A. personnel and transport will be relieved by 3 pm 24<sup>th</sup>. 139 F.A. p. and H.T. relieved by 7 am 23<sup>rd</sup> .  This Amb. by 7 am on 24<sup>th</sup> . Capt Davies to be sent up to Larch Wood to help if necessary during relief, and to definitely ascertain information on some points.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">LOCK 8</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 23</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Phone out of action since 4 am. Found wire had been removed from test box L.S. Reported it to ADMS. Heard my orders for relief were delayed in being received owing to shelling.</p><p class="P8">Sent Capt. Davies to Larch Wood, and to report, as phone is broken, also to help.</p><p class="P8">After some difficulty got into touch with the O.C. 134 (Relieving Amb.) in the afternoon and arranged with him for relief of the personnel of 140, Officers i/c Forward Bearers, and Capt Lauder. Also sent notes to these officers.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">4.30 pm</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Issued orders reference above. Heard that relief of 138 and 139 was delayed owing to their not getting their orders early enough, these orders were issued by me directly I got the ADMS orders (8.30 pm last night) a warning order having been previously sent out.</p><p class="P8">Learnt that the light wounded sent by Corps Railway from Larch Wood had been taken to Remy Siding instead of La Clytte, as directed by Capt. Lauder.</p><p class="P8">Handed over Lock 8.  Got a receipt from the O.C. 187 Bgde.  R.A. (per signal officer)</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">VOORMAZELE</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">7.30 pm</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Moved to Voormazele. Reported to ADMS at 10 pm re situation and relief. Capt. Rowland (i/c  Voormazele) reports to me that all personnel and transport of 138 and 139 have passed through Voormazele and relief of them is complete.</p><p class="P8">Parties from 134 F.A. have gone up to complete relief of 140 F.A. and Forward Bearer Officers. The Infantry S bearers of the forward area have been disposed of as ordered by ADMS.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 24</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Parties from 140 arrived during the night. Last party arrived 5.30 am. All officers and personnel now relieved from the line, handed over all dressings, stores etc. to relief party at Voormazele. Also obtained all the receipts from the E.Ps and CP.  Heard that Hedge St was blown in by a shell and Capt LUMLEY buried, suffered from shock and contusions was evacuated. To Veerstraat horse lines, had wagons packed men embussed. Transport to follow.  </p><p class="P8">To report to ADMS Caestre, arrived by car at midday, was given a map reference for 2 farms near HONDEGHEM, left man to direct  transport to follow. Arrived at our assigned billets, admission strenuously refused. Left cars and buses there and returned to ADMS to report. Went to Div. H.Q. got billets given to us Q33.b central, was able to stop transport at Caestre, sent them to the farm, and orders to bus and cars to come on.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">CAESTRE (Q33b central)</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept25</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Conference of C.O.s at ADMS office. Was blamed for the blockage at Larch Wood and lack of initiative etc. Went on to B.H.Q. (124<sup>th</sup> Bgde) arranged about buses and strength for our move to 4<sup>th</sup> Army etc. </p><p class="P8">In the evening a message that I am to report tomorrow morning 8.45 am at ADMS office.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept  26</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Interviewed the General with the ADMS, offered my defence and was told to return and see the General (G.O.C. 41<sup>st</sup> Div.) at 12 noon, which I did. He told me that he was satisfied that though there had been a temporary blockage, the evacuation of wounded generally was carried out well, that the matter as far as he was concerned was ended, and that the report had been destroyed, and that it would  not stand against me in the future.</p><p class="P8">Orders received that our Transport move with Bgde tomorrow morning to WORMHOUDT and from there on 28<sup>th</sup> to GHYVELDE - 4<sup>th</sup> Army. We follow by bus on 28<sup>th</sup> - made all necessary arrangements.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 27</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Transport moved 1.10 for WORMHOUDT under Capts Davidson and Butler.  Called at 124<sup>th</sup> B.H.Q.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8">GHYVELDE</p></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept  28</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Men marched to BORRE to embus at 7 am, Collected 3 sick from Brigade. Came by car via Cassell, Bergues and Dunkirk to GHYVELDE.  Men in billets. School as hospital to accommodate 20 sick. Wagons in front of church, and Horse lines some way.  In the evening bombed by hostile planes, 2 killed and 6 wounded in the Fusil. H.Q. Mess. Capts  Rowland, Butler and Lt Harvey and 70 men to go to Corps Rest Station tomorrow.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept 29</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Unpacking. Kit inspection and equip. Party left for Corps Rest Station. Sent in S/Sgt Talbot, Sgts Sawyer and Peyton for NewYear Honours. ADMS Called.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8">Sept  30</p></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">C.O.s conference at ADMS La Plane, instruction re this area and Army.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8">2pm</p></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Parade 2 pm marching order. Many of the clothes much destroyed by work in the line and kits lost Hedge St. All being indented for to complete.</p></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8">McALLUM Lt. Col. RAMC O.C 140<sup>th</sup> F.A.</p></td></tr><tr><td class="col1"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col2"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col3"><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col4"><p class="P8">Attached ; 1. <a href="1917-09-A.xhtml">A</a> – Scheme of evacuation.  2. <a href="1917-09-B.xhtml">B</a> – My O.O as based on O.O. Of ADMS 41<sup>st</sup> Div.</p><p class="P8"/></td><td class="col5"><p class="P8"/></td></tr></table><p class="Standard"/></body></html>